@@751936

txt //recipitation of Stony Matter most rapid where Putrefaction is going on . Sources of Lime and Silex in Solution . CHAPTER V. ELEVATION OF STRATA ABOVE THE SEA .  --  HORIZONTAL AND INCLINED STRATIFICATION . Why the Position of Marine Strata , above the Level of the Sea , should be referred to the rising up of the Land , not to the going down of the Sea . Strata of Deep-sea and Shallow-water Origin alternate . Also Marine and Fresh-water Beds and old Land Surfaces . Vertical , inclined , and folded Strata . Anticlinal and Synclinal Curves . Theories to explain Lateral Movements . Creeps in Coal-mines . Dip and Strike . Structure of the Jura . Various Forms of Outcrop . Synclinal Strata forming Ridges . Connection of Fracture and Flexure of Rocks . Inverted Strata . Faults described . Superficial Signs of the same obliterated by Denudation . Great Faults the Result of repeated Movements . Arrangement and Direction of parallel Folds of Strata . Unconformability . Overlapping Strata . CHAPTER VI . DENUDATION . Denudation defined . Its Amount more than equal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's Crust . Subaerial Denudation . Action of the Wind . Action of Running Water . Alluvium defined . Different Ages of Alluvium . Denuding Power of Rivers affected by Rise or Fall of Land . Littoral Denudation . Inland Sea-Cliffs . Escarpments . Submarine Denudation . Dogger-bank . Newfoundland Bank . Denuding Power of the Ocean during Emergence of Land . CHAPTER VII . JOINT ACTION OF DENUDATION , UPHEAVAL , AND SUBSIDENCE IN REMODELLING THE EARTH 'S CRUST . How we obtain an Insight at the Surface , of the Arrangement of Rocks at great Depths . Why the Height of the successive Strata in a given Region is so disproportionate to their Thickness . Computation of the average annual Amount of subaerial Denudation . Antagonism of Volcanic Force to the Levelling Power of running Water . How far the Transfer of Sediment from the Land to a neighbouring Sea-bottom may affect Subterranean Movements . Permanence of Continental and Oceanic Areas . CHAPTER VIII . CHRONOLOGICAL CLASSIFICATION OF ROCKS . Aqueous , Plutonic , volcanic , and metamorphic Rocks considered chronologically . Terms Primary , Secondary , and Tertiary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the different Ages of the aqueous Rocks . Three principal Tests of relative Age : Superposition , Mineral Character , and Fossils . Change of Mineral Character and Fossils in the same continuous Formation . Proofs that distinct Species of Animals and Plants have lived at successive Periods . Distinct Provinces of indigenous Species . Great Extent of single Provinces . Similar Laws prevailed at successive Geological Periods . Relative Importance of mineral and palaeontological Characters . Test of Age by included Fragments . Frequent Absence of Strata of intervening Periods . Tabular Views of fossiliferous Strata . CHAPTER IX . CLASSIFICATION OF TERTIARY FORMATIONS . Order of Succession of Sedimentary Formations . Frequent Unconformability of Strata . Imperfection of the Record . Defectiveness of the Monuments greater in Proportion to their Antiquity . Reasons for studying the newer Groups first . Nomenclature of Formations . Detached Tertiary Formations scattered over Europe . Value of the Shell-bearing Mollusca in Classification . Classification of Tertiary Strata . Eocene , Miocene , and Pliocene Terms explained . CHAPTER X. RECENT AND POST-PLIOCENE PERIODS . Recent and Post-pliocene Periods . Terms defined . Formations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Art near Naples . Danish Peat and Shell-mounds . Swiss Lake-dwellings . Periods of Stone , Bronze , and Iron . Post-pliocene Formations . Coexistence of Man with extinct Mammalia . Reindeer Period of South of France . Alluvial Deposits of Paleolithic Age . Higher and Lower-level Valley-gravels . Loess or Inundation-mud of the Nile , Rhine , etc . Origin of Caverns . Remains of Man and extinct Quadrupeds in Cavern Deposits . Cave of Kirkdale . Australian Cave-breccias . Geographical Relationship of the Provinces of living Vertebrata and those of extinct Post-pliocene Species . Extinct struthious Birds of New Zealand . Climate of the Post-pliocene Period . Comparative Longevity of Species in the Mammalia and Testacea . Teeth of Recent and Post-pliocene Mammalia . CHAPTER XI . POST-PLIOCENE PERIOD , CONTINUED .  --  GLACIAL CONDITIONS . Geographical Distribution , Form , and Characters of Glacial Drift . Fundamental Rocks , polished , grooved , and scratched . Abrading and striating Action of Glaciers . Moraines , Erratic Blocks , and " Roches Moutonnees . " Alpine Blocks on the Jura . Continental Ice of Greenland . Ancient Centres @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ floating Icebergs . Bed of the Sea furrowed and polished by the running aground of floating Ice-islands . CHAPTER XII . POST-PLIOCENE PERIOD , CONTINUED .  --  GLACIAL CONDITIONS , CONCLUDED . Glaciation of Scandinavia and Russia . Glaciation of Scotland . Mammoth in Scotch Till . Marine Shells in Scotch Glacial Drift . Their Arctic Character . Rarity of Organic Remains in Glacial Deposits . Contorted Strata in Drift . Glaciation of Wales , England , and Ireland . Marine Shells of Moel Tryfaen . Erratics near Chichester . Glacial Formations of North America . Many Species of Testacea and Quadrupeds survived the Glacial Cold . Connection of the Predominance of Lakes with Glacial Action . Action of Ice in preventing the silting up of Lake-basins . Absence of Lakes in the Caucasus . Equatorial Lakes of Africa . CHAPTER XIII . PLIOCENE PERIOD . Glacial Formations of Pliocene Age . Bridlington Beds . Glacial Drifts of Ireland . Drift of Norfolk Cliffs . Cromer Forest-bed . Aldeby and Chillesford Beds . Norwich Crag . Older Pliocene Strata . Red Crag of Suffolk . Coprolitic Bed of Red Crag . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Climate of the Crag Deposits . Antwerp Crag . Newer Pliocene Strata of Sicily . Newer Pliocene Strata of the Upper Val d'Arno . Older Pliocene of Italy . Subapennine Strata . Older Pliocene Flora of Italy . CHAPTER XIV . MIOCENE PERIOD .  --  UPPER MIOCENE . Upper Miocene Strata of France . faluns of Touraine . Tropical Climate implied by Testacea . Proportion of recent Species of Shells . faluns more ancient than the Suffolk Crag . Upper Miocene of Bordeaux and the South of France . Upper Miocene of Oeningen , in Switzerland . Plants of the Upper Fresh-water Molasse . Fossil Fruit and Flowers as well as Leaves . Insects of the Upper Molasse . Middle or Marine Molasse of Switzerland . Upper Miocene Beds of the Bolderberg , in Belgium . Vienna Basin . Upper Miocene of Italy and Greece . Upper Miocene of India ; Siwalik Hills . Older Pliocene and Miocene of the United States . CHAPTER XV . LOWER MIOCENE . Lower Miocene Strata of France . Line between Miocene and Eocene . Lacustrine Strata of Auvergne . Fossil Mammalia of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Proofs of Subsidence . Flora of the Lower Molasse . American Character of the Flora . Theory of a Miocene Atlantis . Lower Miocene of Belgium . Rupelian Clay of Hermsdorf near Berlin . Mayence Basin . Lower Miocene of Croatia . Oligocene Strata of Beyrich . Lower Miocene of Italy . Lower Miocene of England . Hempstead Beds . Bovey Tracey Lignites in Devonshire . Isle of Mull Leaf-Beds . Arctic Miocene Flora . Disco Island . Lower Miocene of United States . Fossils of Nebraska . CHAPTER XVI . EOCENE FORMATIONS . Eocene Areas of North of Europe . Table of English and French Eocene Strata . Upper Eocene of England . Bembridge Beds . Osborne or St. Helen 's Beds . Headon Series . Fossils of the Barton Sands and Clays . Middle Eocene of England . Shells , Nummulites , Fish and Reptiles of the Bracklesham Beds and Bagshot Sands . Plants of Alum Bay and Bournemouth . Lower Eocene of England . London Clay Fossils . Woolwich and Reading Beds formerly called " Plastic Clay . " Fluviatile Beds underlying Deep-sea Strata . Thanet Sands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Montmartre and Extinct Quadrupeds . Fossil Footprints in Paris Gypsum . Imperfection of the Record . Calcaire Silicieux . Gres de Beauchamp . Calcaire Grossier . Miliolite Limestone . Soissonnais Sands . Lower Eocene of France . Nummulitic Formations of Europe , Africa , and Asia . Eocene Strata in the United States . Gigantic Cetacean . CHAPTER XVII . UPPER CRETACEOUS GROUP . Lapse of Time between Cretaceous and Eocene Periods . Table of successive Cretaceous Formations . Maestricht Beds . Pisolitic Limestone of France . Chalk of Faxoe . Geographical Extent and Origin of the White Chalk . Chalky Matter now forming in the Bed of the Atlantic . Marked Difference between the Cretaceous and existing Fauna . Chalk-flints . Pot-stones of Horstead . Vitreous Sponges in the Chalk . Isolated Blocks of Foreign Rocks in the White Chalk supposed to be ice-borne . Distinctness of Mineral Character in contemporaneous Rocks of the Cretaceous Epoch . Fossils of the White Chalk . Lower White Chalk without Flints . Chalk Marl and its Fossils . Chloritic Series or Upper Greensand . Coprolite Bed near Cambridge . Fossils of the Chloritic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Strata . Blackdown Beds . Flora of the Upper Cretaceous Period . Hippurite Limestone . Cretaceous Rocks in the United States . CHAPTER XVIII . LOWER CRETACEOUS OR NEOCOMIAN FORMATION . Classification of marine and fresh-water Strata . Upper Neocomian . Folkestone and Hythe Beds . Atherfield Clay . Similarity of Conditions causing Reappearance of Species after short Intervals . Upper Speeton Clay . Middle Neocomian . Tealby Series . Middle Speeton Clay . Lower Neocomian . Lower Speeton Clay . Wealden Formation . Fresh-water Character of the Wealden . Weald Clay . Hastings Sands . Punfield Beds of Purbeck , Dorsetshire . Fossil Shells and Fish of the Wealden . Area of the Wealden . Flora of the Wealden . CHAPTER XIX . JURASSIC GROUP .  --  PURBECK BEDS AND OOLITE . The Purbeck Beds a Member of the Jurassic Group . Subdivisions of that Group . Physical Geography of the Oolite in England and France . Upper Oolite . Purbeck Beds . New Genera of fossil Mammalia in the Middle Purbeck of Dorsetshire . Dirt-bed or ancient Soil . Fossils of the Purbeck Beds . Portland Stone and Fossils @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Middle Oolite . Coral Rag . Nerinaea Limestone . Oxford Clay , Ammonites and Belemnites . Kelloway Rock . Lower , or Bath , Oolite . Great Plants of the Oolite . Oolite and Bradford Clay . Stonesfield Slate . Fossil Mammalia . Fuller 's Earth . Inferior Oolite and Fossils . Northamptonshire Slates . Yorkshire Oolitic Coal-field . Brora Coal . Palaeontological Relations of the several Subdivisions of the Oolitic group . CHAPTER XX . JURASSIC GROUP  --  CONTINUED .  --  LIAS . Mineral Character of Lias . Numerous successive Zones in the Lias , marked by distinct Fossils , without Unconformity in the Stratification , or Change in the Mineral Character of the Deposits . Gryphite Limestone . Shells of the Lias . Fish of the Lias . Reptiles of the Lias . Ichthyosaur and Plesiosaur . Marine Reptile of the Galapagos Islands . Sudden Destruction and Burial of Fossil Animals in Lias . Fluvio-marine Beds in Gloucestershire , and Insect Limestone . Fossil Plants . The origin of the Oolite and Lias , and of alternating Calcareous and Argillaceous Formations . CHAPTER XXI . TRIAS , OR @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lias and Trias , Rhaetic Beds . Triassic Mammifer . Triple Division of the Trias . Keuper , or Upper Trias of England . Reptiles of the Upper Trias . Foot-prints in the Bunter formation in England . Dolomitic Conglomerate of Bristol . Origin of Red Sandstone and Rock-salt . Precipitation of Salt from inland Lakes and Lagoons . Trias of Germany . Keuper . St. Cassian and Hallstadt Beds . Peculiarity of their Fauna . Muschelkalk and its Fossils . Trias of the United States . Fossil Foot-prints of Birds and Reptiles in the Valley of the Connecticut . Triassic Mammifer of North Carolina . Triassic Coal-field of Richmond , Virginia . Low Grade of early Mammals favourable to the Theory of Progressive Development . CHAPTER XXII . PERMIAN OR MAGNESIAN LIMESTONE GROUP . Line of Separation between Mesozoic and Palaeozoic Rocks . Distinctness of Triassic and Permian Fossils . Term Permian . Thickness of calcareous and sedimentary Rocks in North of England . Upper , Middle , and Lower Permian . Marine Shells and Corals of the English Magnesian Limestone . Reptiles and Fish of Permian Marl-slate . Foot-prints @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rocks of the Continent . Zechstein and Rothliegendes of Thuringia . Permian Flora . Its generic Affinity to the Carboniferous . CHAPTER XXIII . THE COAL OR CARBONIFEROUS GROUP . Principal Subdivisions of the Carboniferous Group . Different Thickness of the sedimentary and calcareous Members in Scotland and the South of England . Coal-measures . Terrestrial Nature of the Growth of Coal . Erect fossil Trees . Uniting of many Coal-seams into one thick Bed . Purity of the Coal explained . Conversion of Coal into Anthracite . Origin of Clay-ironstone . Marine and brackish-water Strata in Coal . Fossil Insects . Batrachian Reptiles . Labyrinthodont Foot-prints in Coal-measures . Nova Scotia Coal-measures with successive Growths of erect fossil Trees . Similarity of American and European Coal . Air-breathers of the American Coal . Changes of Condition of Land and Sea indicated by the Carboniferous Strata of Nova Scotia . CHAPTER XXIV . FLORA AND FAUNA OF THE CARBONIFEROUS PERIOD . Vegetation of the Coal Period . Ferns , Lycopodiaceae , Equisetaceae , Sigillariae , Stigmariae , Coniferae . Angiosperms . Climate of the Coal Period . Mountain Limestone . Marine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Crinoidea . Mollusca . Great Number of fossil Fish . Foraminifera . CHAPTER XXV . DEVONIAN OR OLD RED SANDSTONE GROUP . Classification of the Old Red Sandstone in Scotland and in Devonshire . Upper Old Red Sandstone in Scotland , with Fish and Plants . Middle Old Red Sandstone . Classification of the Ichthyolites of the Old Red , and their Relation to Living Types . Lower Old Red Sandstone , with Cephalaspis and Pterygotus . Marine or Devonian Type of Old Red Sandstone . Table of Devonian Series . Upper Devonian Rocks and Fossils . Middle . Lower . Eifel Limestone of Germany . Devonian of Russia . Devonian Strata of the United States and Canada . Devonian Plants and Insects of Canada . CHAPTER XXVI . SILURIAN GROUP . Classification of the Silurian Rocks . Ludlow Formation and Fossils . Bone-bed of the Upper Ludlow . Lower Ludlow Shales with Pentamerus . Oldest known Remains of fossil Fish . Table of the progressive Discovery of Vertebrata in older Rocks . Wenlock Formation , Corals , Cystideans and Trilobites . Llandovery Group or Beds of Passage . Lower Silurian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Cystideae . Graptolites . Llandeilo Flags . Arenig or Stiper-stones Group . Foreign Silurian Equivalents in Europe . Silurian Strata of the United States . Canadian Equivalents . Amount of specific Agreement of Fossils with those of Europe . CHAPTER XXVII . CAMBRIAN AND LAURENTIAN GROUPS . Classification of the Cambrian Group , and its Equivalent in Bohemia . Upper Cambrian Rocks . Tremadoc Slates and their Fossils . Lingula Flags . Lower Cambrian Rocks . Menevian Beds . Longmynd Group . Harlech Grits with large Trilobites . Llanberis Slates . Cambrian Rocks of Bohemia . Primordial Zone of Barrande . Metamorphosis of Trilobites . Cambrian Rocks of Sweden and Norway . Cambrian Rocks of the United States and Canada . Potsdam Sandstone . Huronian Series . Laurentian Group , upper and lower . Eozoon Canadense , oldest known Fossil . Fundamental Gneiss of Scotland . CHAPTER XXVIII . VOLCANIC ROCKS . External Form , Structure , and Origin of Volcanic Mountains . Cones and Craters . Hypothesis of " Elevation Craters " considered . Trap Rocks . Name whence derived . Minerals most abundant in Volcanic Rocks . Table @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rocks . Similar Minerals in Meteorites . Theory of Isomorphism . Basaltic Rocks . Trachytic Rocks . Special Forms of Structure . The columnar and globular Forms . Trap Dikes and Veins . Alteration of Rocks by volcanic Dikes . Conversion of Chalk into Marble . Intrusion of Trap between Strata . Relation of trappean Rocks to the Products of active Volcanoes . CHAPTER XXIX . ON THE AGES OF VOLCANIC ROCKS . Tests of relative Age of Volcanic Rocks . Why ancient and modern Rocks can not be identical . Tests by Superposition and intrusion . Test by Alteration of Rocks in Contact . Test by Organic Remains . Test of Age by Mineral Character . Test by Included Fragments . Recent and Post-pliocene volcanic Rocks . Vesuvius , Auvergne , Puy de Come , and Puy de Pariou . Newer Pliocene volcanic Rocks . Cyclopean Isles , Etna , Dikes of Palagonia , Madeira . Older Pliocene volcanic Rocks . Italy . Pliocene Volcanoes of the Eifel . Trass . CHAPTER XXX . AGE OF VOLCANIC ROCKS  --  CONTINUED . Volcanic Rocks of the Upper Miocene Period . Madeira @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Isle of Mull . Staffa and Antrim . The Eifel . Upper and Lower Miocene Volcanic Rocks of Auvergne . Hill of Gergovia . Eocene Volcanic Rocks of Monte Bolca . Trap of Cretaceous Period . Oolitic Period . Triassic Period . Permian Period . Carboniferous Period . Erect Trees buried in Volcanic Ash in the Island of Arran . Old Red Sandstone Period . Silurian Period . Cambrian Period . Laurentian Volcanic Rocks . CHAPTER XXXI . PLUTONIC ROCKS . General Aspect of Plutonic Rocks . Granite and its Varieties . Decomposing into Spherical Masses . Rude columnar Structure . Graphic Granite . Mutual Penetration of Crystals of Quartz and Feldspar . Glass Cavities in Quartz of Granite . Porphyritic , talcose , and syenitic Granite . Schorlrock and Eurite . Syenite . Connection of the Granites and Syenites with the Volcanic Rocks . Analogy in Composition of Trachyte and Granite . Granite Veins in Glen Tilt , Cape of Good Hope , and Cornwall . Metalliferous Veins in Strata near their Junction with Granite . Quartz Veins . Exposure of Plutonic Rocks at the surface due to Denudation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ PLUTONIC ROCKS . Difficulty in ascertaining the precise Age of a Plutonic Rock . Test of Age by Relative Position . Test by Intrusion and Alteration . Test by Mineral Composition . Test by included Fragments . Recent and Pliocene Plutonic Rocks , why invisible . Miocene Syenite of the Isle of Skye . Eocene Plutonic Rocks in the Andes . Granite altering Cretaceous Rocks . Granite altering Lias in the Alps and in Skye . Granite of Dartmoor altering Carboniferous Strata . Granite of the Old Red Sandstone Period . Syenite altering Silurian Strata in Norway . Blending of the same with Gneiss . Most ancient Plutonic Rocks . Granite protruded in a solid Form . CHAPTER XXXIII . METAMORPHIC ROCKS . General Character of Metamorphic Rocks . Gneiss . Hornblende-schist . Serpentine . Mica-schist . Clay-slate . Quartzite . Chlorite-schist . Metamorphic Limestone . Origin of the metamorphic Strata . Their Stratification . Fossiliferous Strata near intrusive Masses of Granite converted into Rocks identical with different Members of the metamorphic Series . Arguments hence derived as to the Nature of Plutonic Action . Hydrothermal Action , or the Influence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the metamorphic Theory considered . CHAPTER XXXIV . METAMORPHIC ROCKS  --  CONTINUED . Definition of slaty Cleavage and Joints . Supposed Causes of these Structures . Crystalline Theory of Cleavage . Mechanical Theory of Cleavage . Condensation and Elongation of slate Rocks by lateral Pressure . Lamination of some volcanic Rocks due to Motion . Whether the Foliation of the crystalline Schists be usually parallel with the original Planes of Stratification . Examples in Norway and Scotland . Causes of Irregularity in the Planes of Foliation . CHAPTER XXXV . ON THE DIFFERENT AGES OF THE METAMORPHIC ROCKS . Difficulty of ascertaining the Age of metamorphic Strata . Metamorphic Strata of Eocene date in the Alps of Switzerland and Savoy . Limestone and Shale of Carrara . Metamorphic Strata of older date than the Silurian and Cambrian Rocks . Order of Succession in metamorphic Rocks . Uniformity of mineral Character . Supposed Azoic Period . Connection between the Absence of Organic Remains and the Scarcity of calcareous Matter in metamorphic Rocks . CHAPTER XXXVI . MINERAL VEINS . Different Kinds of mineral Veins . Ordinary metalliferous Veins or Lodes . Their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fissures in solid Rock . Veins shifting other Veins . Polishing of their Walls or " Slicken sides . " Shells and Pebbles in Lodes . Evidence of the successive Enlargement and Reopening of veins . Examples in Cornwall and in Auvergne . Dimensions of Veins . Why some alternately swell out and contract . Filling of Lodes by Sublimation from below . Supposed relative Age of the precious Metals . Copper and lead Veins in Ireland older than Cornish Tin . Lead Vein in Lias , Glamorganshire . Gold in Russia , California , and Australia . Connection of hot Springs and mineral Veins . INDEX . ... STUDENT 'S ELEMENTS OF GEOLOGY . CHAPTER I. ON THE DIFFERENT CLASSES OF ROCKS . Geology defined . Successive Formation of the Earth 's Crust . Classification of Rocks according to their Origin and Age . Aqueous Rocks . Their Stratification and imbedded Fossils . Volcanic Rocks , with and without Cones and Craters . Plutonic Rocks , and their Relation to the Volcanic . Metamorphic Rocks , and their probable Origin . The term Primitive , why erroneously applied to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what materials is the earth composed , and in what manner are these materials arranged ? These are the first inquiries with which Geology is occupied , a science which derives its name from the Greek ge , the earth , and logos , a discourse . Previously to experience we might have imagined that investigations of this kind would relate exclusively to the mineral kingdom , and to the various rocks , soils , and metals , which occur upon the surface of the earth , or at various depths beneath it . But , in pursuing such researches , we soon find ourselves led on to consider the successive changes which have taken place in the former state of the earth 's surface and interior , and the causes which have given rise to these changes ; and , what is still more singular and unexpected , we soon become engaged in researches into the history of the animate creation , or of the various tribes of animals and plants which have , at different periods of the past , inhabited the globe . All are aware that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such as clay , chalk , sand , limestone , coal , slate , granite , and the like ; but previously to observation it is commonly imagined that all these had remained from the first in the state in which we now see them  --  that they were created in their present form , and in their present position . The geologist soon comes to a different conclusion , discovering proofs that the external parts of the earth were not all produced in the beginning of things in the state in which we now behold them , nor in an instant of time . On the contrary , he can show that they have acquired their actual configuration and condition gradually , under a great variety of circumstances , and at successive periods , during each of which distinct races of living beings have flourished on the land and in the waters , the remains of these creatures still lying buried in the crust of the earth . By the " earth 's crust , " is meant that small portion of the exterior of our planet which is accessible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the structure is laid open in mountain precipices , or in cliffs overhanging a river or the sea , or whatever the miner may reveal in artificial excavations ; but the whole of that outer covering of the planet on which we are enabled to reason by observations made at or near the surface . These reasonings may extend to a depth of several miles , perhaps ten miles ; and even then it may be said , that such a thickness is no more than 1/400 part of the distance from the surface to the centre . The remark is just : but although the dimensions of such a crust are , in truth , insignificant when compared to the entire globe , yet they are vast , and of magnificent extent in relation to man , and to the organic beings which people our globe . Referring to this standard of magnitude , the geologist may admire the ample limits of his domain , and admit , at the same time , that not only the exterior of the planet , but the entire earth , is but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the astronomer . The materials of this crust are not thrown together confusedly ; but distinct mineral masses , called rocks , are found to occupy definite spaces , and to exhibit a certain order of arrangement . The term ROCK is applied indifferently by geologists to all these substances , whether they be soft or stony , for clay and sand are included in the term , and some have even brought peat under this denomination . Our old writers endeavoured to avoid offering such violence to our language , by speaking of the component materials of the earth as consisting of rocks and SOILS . But there is often so insensible a passage from a soft and incoherent state to that of stone , that geologists of all countries have found it indispensable to have one technical term to include both , and in this sense we find ROCHE applied in French , ROCCA in Italian , and FELSART in German . The beginner , however , must constantly bear in mind that the term rock by no means implies that a mineral mass is in an indurated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of classifying the various rocks which compose the earth 's crust , is to refer , in the first place , to their origin , and in the second to their relative age . I shall therefore begin by endeavouring briefly to explain to the student how all rocks may be divided into four great classes by reference to their different origin , or , in other words , by reference to the different circumstances and causes by which they have been produced . The first two divisions , which will at once be understood as natural , are the aqueous and volcanic , or the products of watery and those of igneous action at or near the surface . AQUEOUS ROCKS . The aqueous rocks , sometimes called the sedimentary , or fossiliferous , cover a larger part of the earth 's surface than any others . They consist chiefly of mechanical deposits ( pebbles , sand , and mud ) , but are partly of chemical and some of them of organic origin , especially the limestones . These rocks are STRATIFIED , or divided into distinct layers , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or any thing spread out or STREWED over a given surface ; and we infer that these strata have been generally spread out by the action of water , from what we daily see taking place near the mouths of rivers , or on the land during temporary inundations . For , whenever a running stream charged with mud or sand , has its velocity checked , as when it enters a lake or sea , or overflows a plain , the sediment , previously held in suspension by the motion of the water , sinks , by its own gravity to the bottom . In this manner layers of mud and sand are thrown down one upon another . If we drain a lake which has been fed by a small stream , we frequently find at the bottom a series of deposits , disposed with considerable regularity , one above the other ; the uppermost , perhaps , may be a stratum of peat , next below a more dense and solid variety of the same material ; still lower a bed of shell-marl , alternating with peat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ divided by layers of clay . Now , if a second pit be sunk through the same continuous lacustrine FORMATION at some distance from the first , nearly the same series of beds is commonly met with , yet with slight variations ; some , for example , of the layers of sand , clay , or marl , may be wanting , one or more of them having thinned out and given place to others , or sometimes one of the masses first examined is observed to increase in thickness to the exclusion of other beds . The term " FORMATION , " which I have used in the above explanation , expresses in geology any assemblage of rocks which have some character in common , whether of origin , age , or composition . Thus we speak of stratified and unstratified , fresh-water and marine , aqueous and volcanic , ancient and modern , metalliferous and non-metalliferous formations . In the estuaries of large rivers , such as the Ganges and the Mississippi , we may observe , at low water , phenomena analogous to those of the drained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and extending over areas several hundred miles in length and breadth . When the periodical inundations subside , the river hollows out a channel to the depth of many yards through horizontal beds of clay and sand , the ends of which are seen exposed in perpendicular cliffs . These beds vary in their mineral composition , or colour , or in the fineness or coarseness of their particles , and some of them are occasionally characterised by containing drift-wood . At the junction of the river and the sea , especially in lagoons nearly separated by sand-bars from the ocean , deposits are often formed in which brackish and salt-water shells are included . In Egypt , where the Nile is always adding to its delta by filling up part of the Mediterranean with mud , the newly deposited sediment is STRATIFIED , the thin layer thrown down in one season differing slightly in colour from that of a previous year , and being separable from it , as has been observed in excavations at Cairo and other places . ( See " Principles of Geology " by the Author @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ When beds of sand , clay , and marl , containing shells and vegetable matter , are found arranged in a similar manner in the interior of the earth , we ascribe to them a similar origin ; and the more we examine their characters in minute detail , the more exact do we find the resemblance . Thus , for example , at various heights and depths in the earth , and often far from seas , lakes , and rivers , we meet with layers of rounded pebbles composed of flint , limestone , granite , or other rocks , resembling the shingles of a sea-beach or the gravel in a torrent 's bed . Such layers of pebbles frequently alternate with others formed of sand or fine sediment , just as we may see in the channel of a river descending from hills bordering a coast , where the current sweeps down at one season coarse sand and gravel , while at another , when the waters are low and less rapid , fine mud and sand alone are carried seaward . ( See Figure 7 Chapter 2 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ form of pebbles , are alone sufficient to lead us to the conclusion that certain rocks originated under water , this opinion is farther confirmed by the distinct and independent evidence of FOSSILS , so abundantly included in the earth 's crust . By a FOSSIL is meant any body , or the traces of the existence of any body , whether animal or vegetable , which has been buried in the earth by natural causes . Now the remains of animals , especially of aquatic species , are found almost everywhere imbedded in stratified rocks , and sometimes , in the case of limestone , they are in such abundance as to constitute the entire mass of the rock itself . Shells and corals are the most frequent , and with them are often associated the bones and teeth of fishes , fragments of wood , impressions of leaves , and other organic substances . Fossil shells , of forms such as now abound in the sea , are met with far inland , both near the surface , and at great depths below it . They occur at all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ observed at elevations of more than 8000 feet in the Pyrenees , 10,000 in the Alps , 13,000 in the Andes , and above 18,000 feet in the Himalaya . ( Colonel R.J. Strachey found oolitic fossils 18,400 feet high in the Himalaya . ) These shells belong mostly to marine testacea , but in some places exclusively to forms characteristic of lakes and rivers . Hence it is concluded that some ancient strata were deposited at the bottom of the sea , and others in lakes and estuaries . We have now pointed out one great class of rocks , which , however they may vary in mineral composition , colour , grain , or other characters , external and internal , may nevertheless be grouped together as having a common origin . They have all been formed under water , in the same manner as modern accumulations of sand , mud , shingle , banks of shells , reefs of coral , and the like , and are all characterised by stratification or fossils , or by both . VOLCANIC ROCKS . The division of rocks which we may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been produced at or near the surface whether in ancient or modern times , not by water , but by the action of fire or subterranean heat . These rocks are for the most part unstratified , and are devoid of fossils . They are more partially distributed than aqueous formations , at least in respect to horizontal extension . Among those parts of Europe where they exhibit characters not to be mistaken , I may mention not only Sicily and the country round Naples , but Auvergne , Velay , and Vivarais , now the departments of Puy de Dome , Haute Loire , and Ardeche , towards the centre and south of France , in which are several hundred conical hills having the forms of modern volcanoes , with craters more or less perfect on many of their summits . These cones are composed moreover of lava , sand , and ashes , similar to those of active volcanoes . Streams of lava may sometimes be traced from the cones into the adjoining valleys , where they have choked up the ancient channels of rivers with solid rock , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Iceland have been known to do , the rivers either flowing beneath or cutting out a narrow passage on one side of the lava . Although none of these French volcanoes have been in activity within the period of history or tradition , their forms are often very perfect . Some , however , have been compared to the mere skeletons of volcanoes , the rains and torrents having washed their sides , and removed all the loose sand and scoriae , leaving only the harder and more solid materials . By this erosion , and by earthquakes , their internal structure has occasionally been laid open to view , in fissures and ravines ; and we then behold not only many successive beds and masses of porous lava , sand , and scoriae , but also perpendicular walls , or DIKES , as they are called , of volcanic rock , which have burst through the other materials . Such dikes are also observed in the structure of Vesuvius , Etna , and other active volcanoes . They have been formed by the pouring of melted matter , whether @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they commonly traverse deposits of VOLCANIC TUFF , a substance produced by the showering down from the air , or incumbent waters , of sand and cinders , first shot up from the interior of the earth by the explosions of volcanic gases . Besides the parts of France above alluded to , there are other countries , as the north of Spain , the south of Sicily , the Tuscan territory of Italy , the lower Rhenish provinces , and Hungary , where spent volcanoes may be seen , still preserving in many cases a conical form , and having craters and often lava-streams connected with them . There are also other rocks in England , Scotland , Ireland , and almost every country in Europe , which we infer to be of igneous origin , although they do not form hills with cones and craters . Thus , for example , we feel assured that the rock of Staffa , and that of the Giant 's Causeway , called basalt , is volcanic , because it agrees in its columnar structure and mineral composition with streams of lava which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . We find also similar basaltic and other igneous rocks associated with beds of TUFF in various parts of the British Isles , and forming DIKES , such as have been spoken of ; and some of the strata through which these dikes cut are occasionally altered at the point of contact , as if they had been exposed to the intense heat of melted matter . The absence of cones and craters , and long narrow streams of superficial lava , in England and many other countries , is principally to be attributed to the eruptions having been submarine , just as a considerable proportion of volcanoes in our own times burst out beneath the sea . But this question must be enlarged upon more fully in the chapters on Igneous Rocks , in which it will also be shown , that as different sedimentary formations , containing each their characteristic fossils , have been deposited at successive periods , so also volcanic sand and scoriae have been thrown out , and lavas have flowed over the land or bed of the sea , at many different epochs , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as well as the aqueous rocks may be classed as a chronological series of monuments , throwing light on a succession of events in the history of the earth . PLUTONIC ROCKS ( GRANITE ETC ) . We have now pointed out the existence of two distinct orders of mineral masses , the aqueous and the volcanic : but if we examine a large portion of a continent , especially if it contain within it a lofty mountain range , we rarely fail to discover two other classes of rocks , very distinct from either of those above alluded to , and which we can neither assimilate to deposits such as are now accumulated in lakes or seas , nor to those generated by ordinary volcanic action . The members of both these divisions of rocks agree in being highly crystalline and destitute of organic remains . The rocks of one division have been called Plutonic , comprehending all the granites and certain porphyries , which are nearly allied in some of their characters to volcanic formations . The members of the other class are stratified and often slaty , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which group are included gneiss , micaceous-schist ( or mica-slate ) , hornblende-schist , statuary marble , the finer kinds of roofing slate , and other rocks afterwards to be described . As it is admitted that nothing strictly analogous to these crystalline productions can now be seen in the progress of formation on the earth 's surface , it will naturally be asked , on what data we can find a place for them in a system of classification founded on the origin of rocks . I can not , in reply to this question , pretend to give the student , in a few words , an intelligible account of the long chain of facts and reasonings from which geologists have been led to infer the nature of the rocks in question . The result , however , may be briefly stated . All the various kinds of granites which constitute the Plutonic family are supposed to be of igneous or aqueo-igneous origin , and to have been formed under great pressure , at a considerable depth in the earth , or sometimes , perhaps , under a certain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , they have been melted , and afterwards cooled and crystallised , but with extreme slowness , and under conditions very different from those of bodies cooling in the open air . Hence they differ from the volcanic rocks , not only by their more crystalline texture , but also by the absence of tuffs and breccias , which are the products of eruptions at the earth 's surface , or beneath seas of inconsiderable depth . They differ also by the absence of pores or cellular cavities , to which the expansion of the entangled gases gives rise in ordinary lava . METAMORPHIC , OR STRATIFIED CRYSTALLINE ROCKS . The fourth and last great division of rocks are the crystalline strata and slates , or schists , called gneiss , mica-schist , clay-slate , chlorite-schist , marble , and the like , the origin of which is more doubtful than that of the other three classes . They contain no pebbles , or sand , or scoriae , or angular pieces of imbedded stone , and no traces of organic bodies , and they are often as crystalline as granite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and arrangement to those of sedimentary formations , and are therefore said to be stratified . The beds sometimes consist of an alternation of substances varying in colour , composition , and thickness , precisely as we see in stratified fossiliferous deposits . According to the Huttonian theory , which I adopt as the most probable , and which will be afterwards more fully explained , the materials of these strata were originally deposited from water in the usual form of sediment , but they were subsequently so altered by subterranean heat , as to assume a new texture . It is demonstrable , in some cases at least , that such a complete conversion has actually taken place , fossiliferous strata having exchanged an earthy for a highly crystalline texture for a distance of a quarter of a mile from their contact with granite . In some cases , dark limestones , replete with shells and corals , have been turned into white statuary marble ; and hard clays , containing vegetable or other remains , into slates called mica-schist or hornblende-schist , every vestige of the organic bodies having @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ignorant of the precise nature of the influence exerted in these cases , yet it evidently bears some analogy to that which volcanic heat and gases are known to produce ; and the action may be conveniently called Plutonic , because it appears to have been developed in those regions where Plutonic rocks are generated , and under similar circumstances of pressure and depth in the earth . Intensely heated water or steam permeating stratified masses under great pressure have no doubt played their part in producing the crystalline texture and other changes , and it is clear that the transforming influence has often pervaded entire mountain masses of strata . In accordance with the hypothesis above alluded to , I proposed in the first edition of the Principles of Geology ( 1833 ) the term " Metamorphic " for the altered strata , a term derived from meta , trans , and morphe , forma . Hence there are four great classes of rocks considered in reference to their origin  --  the aqueous , the volcanic , the Plutonic , and the metamorphic . In the course of this work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ four distinct classes have originated at many successive periods . They have all been produced contemporaneously , and may even now be in the progress of formation on a large scale . It is not true , as was formerly supposed , that all granites , together with the crystalline or metamorphic strata , were first formed , and therefore entitled to be called " primitive , " and that the aqueous and volcanic rocks were afterwards superimposed , and should , therefore , rank as secondary in the order of time . This idea was adopted in the infancy of the science , when all formations , whether stratified or unstratified , earthy or crystalline , with or without fossils , were alike regarded as of aqueous origin . At that period it was naturally argued that the foundation must be older than the superstructure ; but it was afterwards discovered that this opinion was by no means in every instance a legitimate deduction from facts ; for the inferior parts of the earth 's crust have often been modified , and even entirely changed , by the influence of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not been in the slightest degree altered . In other words , the destroying and renovating processes have given birth to new rocks below , while those above , whether crystalline or fossiliferous , have remained in their ancient condition . Even in cities , such as Venice and Amsterdam , it can not be laid down as universally true that the upper parts of each edifice , whether of brick or marble , are more modern than the foundations on which they rest , for these often consist of wooden piles , which may have rotted and been replaced one after the other , without the least injury to the buildings above ; meanwhile , these may have required scarcely any repair , and may have been constantly inhabited . So it is with the habitable surface of our globe , in its relation to large masses of rock immediately below ; it may continue the same for ages , while subjacent materials , at a great depth , are passing from a solid to a fluid state , and then reconsolidating , so as to acquire a new texture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ respects , be viewed as belonging to one great family , whether they be stratified or unstratified , metamorphic or Plutonic , it will often be convenient to speak of them by one common name . It being now ascertained , as above stated , that they are of very different ages , sometimes newer than the strata called secondary , the terms primitive and primary which were formerly used for the whole must be abandoned , as they would imply a manifest contradiction . It is indispensable , therefore , to find a new name , one which must not be of chronological import , and must express , on the one hand , some peculiarity equally attributable to granite and gneiss ( to the Plutonic as well as the ALTERED rocks ) , and , on the other , must have reference to characters in which those rocks differ , both from the volcanic and from the UNALTERED sedimentary strata . I proposed in the Principles of Geology ( first edition volume 3 ) the term " hypogene " for this purpose , derived from upo , under , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; a word implying the theory that granite , gneiss , and the other crystalline formations are alike NETHERFORMED rocks , or rocks which have not assumed their present form and structure at the surface . They occupy the lowest place in the order of superposition . Even in regions such as the Alps , where some masses of granite and gneiss can be shown to be of comparatively modern date , belonging , for example , to the period hereafter to be described as tertiary , they are still UNDERLYING rocks . They never repose on the volcanic or trappean formations , nor on strata containing organic remains . They are HYPOGENE , as " being under " all the rest . From what has now been said , the reader will understand that each of the four great classes of rocks may be studied under two distinct points of view ; first , they may be studied simply as mineral masses deriving their origin from particular causes , and having a certain composition , form , and position in the earth 's crust , or other characters both positive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organic remains . In the second place , the rocks of each class may be viewed as a grand chronological series of monuments , attesting a succession of events in the former history of the globe and its living inhabitants . I shall accordingly proceed to treat of each family of rocks ; first , in reference to those characters which are not chronological , and then in particular relation to the several periods when they were formed . CHAPTER II . AQUEOUS ROCKS .  --  THEIR COMPOSITION AND FORMS OF STRATIFICATION . Mineral Composition of Strata . Siliceous Rocks . Argillaceous . Calcareous . Gypsum . Forms of Stratification . Original Horizontality . Thinning out . Diagonal Arrangement . Ripple-mark . In pursuance of the arrangement explained in the last chapter , we shall begin by examining the aqueous or sedimentary rocks , which are for the most part distinctly stratified , and contain fossils . We may first study them with reference to their mineral composition , external appearance , position , mode of origin , organic contents , and other characters which belong to them as aqueous formations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consider them chronologically or with reference to the successive geological periods when they originated . I have already given an outline of the data which led to the belief that the stratified and fossiliferous rocks were originally deposited under water ; but , before entering into a more detailed investigation , it will be desirable to say something of the ordinary materials of which such strata are composed . These may be said to belong principally to three divisions , the siliceous , the argillaceous , and the calcareous , which are formed respectively of flint , clay , and carbonate of lime . Of these , the siliceous are chiefly made up of sand or flinty grains ; the argillaceous , or clayey , of a mixture of siliceous matter with a certain proportion , about a fourth in weight , of aluminous earth ; and , lastly , the calcareous rocks , or limestones , of carbonic acid and lime . SILICEOUS AND ARENACEOUS ROCKS . To speak first of the sandy division : beds of loose sand are frequently met with , of which the grains consist entirely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as quartz and common flint . Quartz is silex in its purest form . Flint usually contains some admixture of alumina and oxide of iron . The siliceous grains in sand are usually rounded , as if by the action of running water . Sandstone is an aggregate of such grains , which often cohere together without any visible cement , but more commonly are bound together by a slight quantity of siliceous or calcareous matter , or by oxide of iron or clay . Pure siliceous rocks may be known by not effervescing when a drop of nitric , sulphuric or other acid is applied to them , or by the grains not being readily scratched or broken by ordinary pressure . In nature there is every intermediate gradation , from perfectly loose sand to the hardest sandstone . In MICACEOUS SANDSTONES mica is very abundant ; and the thin silvery plates into which that mineral divides are often arranged in layers parallel to the planes of stratification , giving a slaty or laminated texture to the rock . When sandstone is coarse-grained , it is usually called GRIT @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be called pebbles , it becomes a CONGLOMERATE or PUDDING-STONE , which may consist of pieces of one or of many different kinds of rock . A conglomerate , therefore , is simply gravel bound together by cement . ARGILLACEOUS ROCKS . Clay , strictly speaking , is a mixture of silex or flint with a large proportion , usually about one fourth , of alumina , or argil ; but in common language , any earth which possesses sufficient ductility , when kneaded up with water , to be fashioned like paste by the hand , or by the potter 's lathe , is called a CLAY ; and such clays vary greatly in their composition , and are , in general , nothing more than mud derived from the decomposition or wearing down of rocks . The purest clay found in nature is porcelain clay , or kaolin , which results from the decomposition of a rock composed of feldspar and quartz , and it is almost always mixed with quartz . The kaolin of China consists of 71.15 parts of silex , 15.86 of alumine , 1.92 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mineralogy page 33. ) ; but other porcelain clays differ materially , that of Cornwall being composed , according to Boase , of nearly equal parts of silica and alumine , with 1 per cent of magnesia . ( Phil . Mag . volume 10 1837 . ) SHALE has also the property , like clay , of becoming plastic in water : it is a more solid form of clay , or argillaceous matter , condensed by pressure . It always divides into laminae more or less regular . One general character of all argillaceous rocks is to give out a peculiar , earthy odour when breathed upon , which is a test of the presence of alumine , although it does not belong to pure alumine , but , apparently , to the combination of that substance with oxide of iron . ( See W. Phillips Mineralogy " Alumine . " ) CALCAREOUS ROCKS . This division comprehends those rocks which , like chalk , are composed chiefly of lime and carbonic acid . Shells and corals are also formed of the same elements , with the addition of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to calcine these calcareous substances , that is to say , to expose them to heat of sufficient intensity to drive off the carbonic acid , and other volatile matter . White chalk is sometimes pure carbonate of lime ; and this rock , although usually in a soft and earthy state , is occasionally sufficiently solid to be used for building , and even passes into a COMPACT stone , or a stone of which the separate parts are so minute as not to be distinguishable from each other by the naked eye . Many limestones are made up entirely of minute fragments of shells and coral , or of calcareous sand cemented together . These last might be called " calcareous sandstones ; " but that term is more properly applied to a rock in which the grains are partly calcareous and partly siliceous , or to quartzose sandstones , having a cement of carbonate of lime . The variety of limestone called OOLITE is composed of numerous small egg-like grains , resembling the roe of a fish , each of which has usually a small fragment of sand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matter have accumulated . Any limestone which is sufficiently hard to take a fine polish is called MARBLE . Many of these are fossiliferous ; but statuary marble , which is also called saccharoid limestone , as having a texture resembling that of loaf-sugar , is devoid of fossils , and is in many cases a member of the metamorphic series . SILICEOUS LIMESTONE is an intimate mixture of carbonate of lime and flint , and is harder in proportion as the flinty matter predominates . The presence of carbonate of lime in a rock may be ascertained by applying to the surface a small drop of diluted sulphuric , nitric , or muriatic acid , or strong vinegar ; for the lime , having a greater chemical affinity for any one of these acids than for the carbonic , unites immediately with them to form new compounds , thereby becoming a sulphate , nitrate or muriate of lime . The carbonic acid , when thus liberated from its union with the lime , escapes in a gaseous form , and froths up or effervesces as it makes its way in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is brisk or feeble in proportion as the limestone is pure or impure , or , in other words , according to the quantity of foreign matter mixed with the carbonate of lime . Without the aid of this test , the most experienced eye can not always detect the presence of carbonate of lime in rocks . The above-mentioned three classes of rocks , the siliceous , argillaceous , and calcareous , pass continually into each other , and rarely occur in a perfectly separate and pure form . Thus it is an exception to the general rule to meet with a limestone as pure as ordinary white chalk , or with clay as aluminous as that used in Cornwall for porcelain , or with sand so entirely composed of siliceous grains as the white sand of Alum Bay , in the Isle of Wight , employed in the manufacture of glass , or sandstone so pure as the grit of Fontainebleau , used for pavement in France . More commonly we find sand and clay , or clay and marl , intermixed in the same mass . When the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mixture is called LOAM . If there is much calcareous matter in clay it is called MARL ; but this term has unfortunately been used so vaguely , as often to be very ambiguous . It has been applied to substances in which there is no lime ; as , to that red loam usually called red marl in certain parts of England . Agriculturists were in the habit of calling any soil a marl which , like true marl , fell to pieces readily on exposure to the air . Hence arose the confusion of using this name for soils which , consisting of loam , were easily worked by the plough , though devoid of lime . MARL SLATE bears the same relation to marl which shale bears to clay , being a calcareous shale . It is very abundant in some countries , as in the Swiss Alps . Argillaceous or marly limestone is also of common occurrence . There are few other kinds of rock which enter so largely into the composition of sedimentary strata as to make it necessary to dwell here on their characters . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ limestone or dolomite , and gypsum . MAGNESIAN LIMESTONE is composed of carbonate of lime and carbonate of magnesia ; the proportion of the latter amounting in some cases to nearly one half . It effervesces much more slowly and feebly with acids than common limestone . In England this rock is generally of a yellowish colour ; but it varies greatly in mineralogical character , passing from an earthy state to a white compact stone of great hardness . DOLOMITE , so common in many parts of Germany and France , is also a variety of magnesian limestone , usually of a granular texture . Gypsum is a rock composed of sulphuric acid , lime , and water . It is usually a soft whitish-yellow rock , with a texture resembling that of loaf-sugar , but sometimes it is entirely composed of lenticular crystals . It is insoluble in acids , and does not effervesce like chalk and dolomite , because it does not contain carbonic acid gas , or fixed air , the lime being already combined with sulphuric acid , for which it has a stronger affinity than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , into which water does not enter as a component part . GYPSEOUS MARL is a mixture of gypsum and marl . ALABASTER is a granular and compact variety of gypsum found in masses large enough to be used in sculpture and architecture . It is sometimes a pure snow-white substance , as that of Volterra in Tuscany , well known as being carved for works of art in Florence and Leghorn . It is a softer stone than marble , and more easily wrought . FORMS OF STRATIFICATION . A series of strata sometimes consists of one of the above rocks , sometimes of two or more in alternating beds . Thus , in the coal districts of England , for example , we often pass through several beds of sandstone , some of finer , others of coarser grain , some white , others of a dark colour , and below these , layers of shale and sandstone or beds of shale , divisible into leaf-like laminae , and containing beautiful impressions of plants . Then again we meet with beds of pure and impure coal , alternating with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , are calcareous strata , or beds of limestone , filled with corals and marine shells , each bed distinguishable from another by certain fossils , or by the abundance of particular species of shells or zoophytes . This alternation of different kinds of rock produces the most distinct stratification ; and we often find beds of limestone and marl , conglomerate and sandstone , sand and clay , recurring again and again , in nearly regular order , throughout a series of many hundred strata . The causes which may produce these phenomena are various , and have been fully discussed in my treatise on the modern changes of the earth 's surface . ( Consult Index to Principles of Geology , " Stratification " " Currents " " Deltas " " Water " etc . ) It is there seen that rivers flowing into lakes and seas are charged with sediment , varying in quantity , composition , colour , and grain according to the seasons ; the waters are sometimes flooded and rapid , at other periods low and feeble ; different tributaries , also , draining peculiar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , are swollen at distinct periods . It was also shown that the waves of the sea and currents undermine the cliffs during wintry storms , and sweep away the materials into the deep , after which a season of tranquillity succeeds , when nothing but the finest mud is spread by the movements of the ocean over the same submarine area . It is not the object of the present work to give a description of these operations , repeated as they are , year after year , and century after century ; but I may suggest an explanation of the manner in which some micaceous sandstones have originated , namely , those in which we see innumerable thin layers of mica dividing layers of fine quartzose sand . I observed the same arrangement of materials in recent mud deposited in the estuary of Laroche St. Bernard in Brittany , at the mouth of the Loire . The surrounding rocks are of gneiss , which , by its waste , supplies the mud : when this dries at low water , it is found to consist of brown laminated clay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the mica in this case , or in that of micaceous sandstones , may be thus understood . If we take a handful of quartzose sand , mixed with mica , and throw it into a clear running stream , we see the materials immediately sorted by the water , the grains of quartz falling almost directly to the bottom , while the plates of mica take a much longer time to reach the bottom , and are carried farther down the stream . At the first instant the water is turbid , but immediately after the flat surfaces of the plates of mica are seen all alone , reflecting a silvery light , as they descend slowly , to form a distinct micaceous lamina . The mica is the heavier mineral of the two ; but it remains a longer time suspended in the fluid , owing to its greater extent of surface . It is easy , therefore , to perceive that where such mud is acted upon by a river or tidal current , the thin plates of mica will be carried farther , and not deposited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and since the force and velocity of the stream varies from time to time , layers of mica or of sand will be thrown down successively on the same area . ORIGINAL HORIZONTALITY . It is said generally that the upper and under surfaces of strata , or the " planes of stratification , " are parallel . Although this is not strictly true , they make an approach to parallelism , for the same reason that sediment is usually deposited at first in nearly horizontal layers . Such an arrangement can by no means be attributed to an original evenness or horizontality in the bed of the sea : for it is ascertained that in those places where no matter has been recently deposited , the bottom of the ocean is often as uneven as that of the dry land , having in like manner its hills , valleys , and ravines . Yet if the sea should go down , or be removed from near the mouth of a large river where a delta has been forming , we should see extensive plains of mud and sand laid dry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ level , although , in reality , they would slope gently from the land towards the sea . This tendency in newly-formed strata to assume a horizontal position arises principally from the motion of the water , which forces along particles of sand or mud at the bottom , and causes them to settle in hollows or depressions where they are less exposed to the force of a current than when they are resting on elevated points . The velocity of the current and the motion of the superficial waves diminish from the surface downward , and are least in those depressions where the water is deepest . ( FIGURE 1 . Layers of sand and ashes on uneven ground . ) A good illustration of the principle here alluded to may be sometimes seen in the neighbourhood of a volcano , when a section , whether natural or artificial , has laid open to view a succession of various-coloured layers of sand and ashes , which have fallen in showers upon uneven ground . Thus let A B ( Figure 1 ) be two ridges , with an intervening valley @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effaced by beds of sand and ashes c , d , e , the surface at e being quite level . It will be seen that , although the materials of the first layers have accommodated themselves in a great degree to the shape of the ground A B , yet each bed is thickest at the bottom . At first a great many particles would be carried by their own gravity down the steep sides of A and B , and others would afterwards be blown by the wind as they fell off the ridges , and would settle in the hollow , which would thus become more and more effaced as the strata accumulated from c to e . Now , water in motion can exert this levelling power on similar materials more easily than air , for almost all stones lose in water more than a third of the weight which they have in air , the specific gravity of rocks being in general as 2 1/2 when compared to that of water , which is estimated at 1 . But the buoyancy of sand or mud would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of salt-water exceeds that of fresh . ( FIGURE 2 . Section of strata of sandstone , grit , and conglomerate . ) Yet , however uniform and horizontal may be the surface of new deposits in general , there are still many disturbing causes , such as eddies in the water , and currents moving first in one and then in another direction , which frequently cause irregularities . We may sometimes follow a bed of limestone , shale , or sandstone , for a distance of many hundred yards continuously ; but we generally find at length that each individual stratum thins out , and allows the beds which were previously above and below it to meet . If the materials are coarse , as in grits and conglomerates , the same beds can rarely be traced many yards without varying in size , and often coming to an end abruptly . ( See Figure 2 . ) DIAGONAL OR CROSS STRATIFICATION . ( FIGURE 3 . Section of sand at Sandy Hill , near Biggleswade , Bedfordshire . Height 20 feet . ( Green-sand formation . ) ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ) ( FIGURE 5 . Nearly horizontal layers of sediment over sloping strata . ) ( FIGURE 6 . Cliff between mismer and Dunwich . ) There is also another phenomenon of frequent occurrence . We find a series of larger strata , each of which is composed of a number of minor layers placed obliquely to the general planes of stratification . To this diagonal arrangement the name of " false or cross bedding " has been given . Thus in the section ( Figure 3 ) we see seven or eight large beds of loose sand , yellow and brown , and the lines a , b , c mark some of the principal planes of stratification , which are nearly horizontal . But the greater part of the subordinate laminae do not conform to these planes , but have often a steep slope , the inclination being sometimes towards opposite points of the compass . When the sand is loose and incoherent , as in the case here represented , the deviation from parallelism of the slanting laminae can not possibly be accounted for by any rearrangement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In what manner , then , can such irregularities be due to original deposition ? We must suppose that at the bottom of the sea , as well as in the beds of rivers , the motions of waves , currents , and eddies often cause mud , sand , and gravel to be thrown down in heaps on particular spots , instead of being spread out uniformly over a wide area . Sometimes , when banks are thus formed , currents may cut passages through them , just as a river forms its bed . Suppose the bank A ( Figure 4 ) to be thus formed with a steep sloping side , and , the water being in a tranquil state , the layer of sediment No. 1 is thrown down upon it , conforming nearly to its surface . Afterwards the other layers , 2 , 3 , 4 , may be deposited in succession , so that the bank B C D is formed . If the current then increases in velocity , it may cut away the upper portion of this mass down to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ farther on , so as to form the layers 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 . We have now the bank B , C , D , E ( Figure 5 ) , of which the surface is almost level , and on which the nearly horizontal layers , 9 , 10 , 11 , may then accumulate . It was shown in Figure 3 that the diagonal layers of successive strata may sometimes have an opposite slope . This is well seen in some cliffs of loose sand on the Suffolk coast . A portion of one of these is represented in Figure 6 , where the layers , of which there are about six in the thickness of an inch , are composed of quartzose grains . This arrangement may have been due to the altered direction of the tides and currents in the same place . ( FIGURE 7 . Section from Monte Calvo to the sea by the valley of the Magnan , near Nice . A. Dolomite and sandstone . ( Green-sand formation ? ) a , b , d . Beds of gravel and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Madeleine , with marine ( Pliocene ) shells . ) The description above given of the slanting position of the minor layers constituting a single stratum is in certain cases applicable on a much grander scale to masses several hundred feet thick , and many miles in extent . A fine example may be seen at the base of the Maritime Alps near Nice . The mountains here terminate abruptly in the sea , so that a depth of one hundred fathoms is often found within a stone 's throw of the beach , and sometimes a depth of 3000 feet within half a mile . But at certain points , strata of sand , marl , or conglomerate intervene between the shore and the mountains , as in the section ( Figure 7 ) , where a vast succession of slanting beds of gravel and sand may be traced from the sea to Monte Calvo , a distance of no less than nine miles in a straight line . The dip of these beds is remarkably uniform , being always southward or towards the Mediterranean , at an angle of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nearly vertical precipices , varying from 200 to 600 feet in height , which bound the valley through which the river Magnan flows . Although , in a general view , the strata appear to be parallel and uniform , they are nevertheless found , when examined closely , to be wedge-shaped , and to thin out when followed for a few hundred feet or yards , so that we may suppose them to have been thrown down originally upon the side of a steep bank where a river or Alpine torrent discharged itself into a deep and tranquil sea , and formed a delta , which advanced gradually from the base of Monte Calvo to a distance of nine miles from the original shore . If subsequently this part of the Alps and bed of the sea were raised 700 feet , the delta may have emerged , a deep channel may then have been cut through it by the river , and the coast may at the same time have acquired its present configuration . ( FIGURE 8 . Slab of ripple-marked ( New Red ) sandstone from Cheshire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ streams which now descend from the Alpine declivities to the shore , bring down annually , when the snow melts , vast quantities of shingle and sand , and then , as they subside , fine mud , while in summer they are nearly or entirely dry ; so that it may be safely assumed that deposits like those of the valley of the Magnan , consisting of coarse gravel alternating with fine sediment , are still in progress at many points , as , for instance , at the mouth of the Var . They must advance upon the Mediterranean in the form of great shoals terminating in a steep talus ; such being the original mode of accumulation of all coarse materials conveyed into deep water , especially where they are composed in great part of pebbles , which can not be transported to indefinite distances by currents of moderate velocity . By inattention to facts and inferences of this kind , a very exaggerated estimate has sometimes been made of the supposed depth of the ancient ocean . There can be no doubt , for example , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Monte Calvo , are older than those indicated by b , and these again were formed before c ; but the vertical depth of gravel and sand in any one place can not be proved to amount even to 1000 feet , although it may perhaps be much greater , yet probably never exceeding at any point 3000 or 4000 feet . But were we to assume that all the strata were once horizontal , and that their present dip or inclination was due to subsequent movements , we should then be forced to conclude that a sea several miles deep had been filled up with alternate layers of mud and pebbles thrown down one upon another . In the locality now under consideration , situated a few miles to the west of Nice , there are many geological data , the details of which can not be given in this place , all leading to the opinion that , when the deposit of the Magnan was formed , the shape and outline of the Alpine declivities and the shore greatly resembled what we now behold at many points in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ c , d are of comparatively modern date is proved by this fact , that in seams of loamy marl intervening between the pebbly beds are fossil shells , half of which belong to species now living in the Mediterranean . RIPPLE-MARK . The ripple-mark , so common on the surface of sandstones of all ages ( see Figure 8 ) , and which is so often seen on the sea-shore at low tide , seems to originate in the drifting of materials along the bottom of the water , in a manner very similar to that which may explain the inclined layers above described . This ripple is not entirely confined to the beach between high and low water mark , but is also produced on sands which are constantly covered by water . Similar undulating ridges and furrows may also be sometimes seen on the surface of drift snow and blown sand . The ripple-mark is usually an indication of a sea-beach , or of water from six to ten feet deep , for the agitation caused by waves even during storms extends to a very slight depth . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and recent ripple-marks have been observed at the depth of 60 or 70 feet . It has also been ascertained that currents or large bodies of water in motion may disturb mud and sand at the depth of 300 or even 450 feet . ( Darwin Volcanic Islands page 134 . ) Beach ripple , however , may usually be distinguished from current ripple by frequent changes in its direction . In a slab of sandstone , not more than an inch thick , the furrows or ridges of an ancient ripple may often be seen in several successive laminae to run towards different points of the compass . CHAPTER III . ARRANGEMENT OF FOSSILS IN STRATA .  --  FRESH-WATER AND MARINE FOSSILS . Successive Deposition indicated by Fossils . Limestones formed of Corals and Shells . Proofs of gradual Increase of Strata derived from Fossils . Serpula attached to Spatangus . Wood bored by Teredina . Tripoli formed of Infusoria . Chalk derived principally from Organic Bodies . Distinction of Fresh-water from Marine Formations . Genera of Fresh-water and Land Shells . Rules for recognising Marine Testacea . Gyrogonite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fresh-water Deposits . Lym-Fiord . Having in the last chapter considered the forms of stratification so far as they are determined by the arrangement of inorganic matter , we may now turn our attention to the manner in which organic remains are distributed through stratified deposits . We should often be unable to detect any signs of stratification or of successive deposition , if particular kinds of fossils did not occur here and there at certain depths in the mass . At one level , for example , univalve shells of some one or more species predominate ; at another , bivalve shells ; and at a third , corals ; while in some formations we find layers of vegetable matter , commonly derived from land plants , separating strata . It may appear inconceivable to a beginner how mountains , several thousand feet thick , can have become full of fossils from top to bottom ; but the difficulty is removed , when he reflects on the origin of stratification , as explained in the last chapter , and allows sufficient time for the accumulation of sediment . He must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ process of deposition , each separate layer was once the uppermost , and immediately in contact with the water in which aquatic animals lived . Each stratum , in fact , however far it may now lie beneath the surface , was once in the state of shingle , or loose sand or soft mud at the bottom of the sea , in which shells and other bodies easily became enveloped . RATE OF DEPOSITION INDICATED BY FOSSILS . By attending to the nature of these remains , we are often enabled to determine whether the deposition was slow or rapid , whether it took place in a deep or shallow sea , near the shore or far from land , and whether the water was salt , brackish , or fresh . Some limestones consist almost exclusively of corals , and in many cases it is evident that the present position of each fossil zoophyte has been determined by the manner in which it grew originally . The axis of the coral , for example , if its natural growth is erect , still remains at right angles to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the round spherical heads of certain species continue uppermost , and their points of attachment are directed downward . This arrangement is sometimes repeated throughout a great succession of strata . From what we know of the growth of similar zoophytes in modern reefs , we infer that the rate of increase was extremely slow , and some of the fossils must have flourished for ages like forest-trees , before they attained so large a size . During these ages , the water must have been clear and transparent , for such corals can not live in turbid water . ( FIGURE 9 . Fossil Gryphaea , covered both on the outside and inside with fossil Serpulae . ) In like manner , when we see thousands of full-grown shells dispersed everywhere throughout a long series of strata , we can not doubt that time was required for the multiplication of successive generations ; and the evidence of slow accumulation is rendered more striking from the proofs , so often discovered , of fossil bodies having lain for a time on the floor of the ocean after death before they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is more common than to see fossil oysters in clay , with Serpulae , or barnacles ( acorn-shells ) , or corals , and other creatures , attached to the inside of the valves , so that the mollusk was certainly not buried in argillaceous mud the moment it died . There must have been an interval during which it was still surrounded with clear water , when the creatures whose remains now adhere to it grew from an embryonic to a mature state . Attached shells which are merely external , like some of the Serpulae ( a ) in Figure 9 , may often have grown upon an oyster or other shell while the animal within was still living ; but if they are found on the inside , it could only happen after the death of the inhabitant of the shell which affords the support . Thus , in Figure 9 , it will be seen that two Serpulae have grown on the interior , one of them exactly on the place where the adductor muscle of the Gryphaea ( a kind of oyster ) was fixed . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the Chalk . ) ( FIGURE 11 . Recent Spatangus with the spines removed from one side . b . Spine and tubercles , natural size . a . The same magnified . ) Some fossil shells , even if simply attached to the OUTSIDE of others , bear full testimony to the conclusion above alluded to , namely , that an interval elapsed between the death of the creature to whose shell they adhere , and the burial of the same in mud or sand . The sea-urchins , or Echini , so abundant in white chalk , afford a good illustration . It is well known that these animals , when living , are invariably covered with spines supported by rows of tubercles . These last are only seen after the death of the sea-urchin , when the spines have dropped off . In Figure 11 a living species of Spatangus , common on our coast , is represented with one half of its shell stripped of the spines . In Figure 10 a fossil of a similar and allied genus from the white chalk of England shows @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when denuded of their bristles . The full-grown Serpula , therefore , which now adheres externally , could not have begun to grow till the Micraster had died , and the spines became detached . ( FIGURE 12. a . Ananchytes from the chalk with lower valve of Crania attached . b . Upper valve of Crania detached . ) Now the series of events here attested by a single fossil may be carried a step farther . Thus , for example , we often meet with a sea-urchin ( Ananchytes ) in the chalk ( see Figure 12 ) which has fixed to it the lower valve of a Crania , a genus of bivalve mollusca . The upper valve ( b , Figure 12 ) is almost invariably wanting , though occasionally found in a perfect state of preservation in white chalk at some distance . In this case , we see clearly that the sea-urchin first lived from youth to age , then died and lost its spines , which were carried away . Then the young Crania adhered to the bared shell , grew and perished in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the lower before the Ananchytes became enveloped in chalky mud . ( FIGURES 13 AND 14 . Fossil and recent wood drilled by perforating Mollusca . ( FIGURE 13. a . Fossil wood from London Clay , bored by Teredina. b . Shell and tube of Teredina personata , the right-hand figure the ventral , the left the dorsal view . ) ( FIGURE 14. e . Recent wood bored by Toredo. d . Shell and tube of Teredo navalis , from the same . c . Anterior and posterior view of the valves of same detached from the tube . ) ) It may be well to mention one more illustration of the manner in which single fossils may sometimes throw light on a former state of things , both in the bed of the ocean and on some adjoining land . We meet with many fragments of wood bored by ship-worms at various depths in the clay on which London is built . Entire branches and stems of trees , several feet in length , are sometimes found drilled all over by the holes of these borers , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cylindrical hollows . In Figure 14 , e , a representation is given of a piece of recent wood pierced by the Teredo navalis , or common ship-worm , which destroys wooden piles and ships . When the cylindrical tube d has been extracted from the wood , the valves are seen at the larger or anterior extremity , as shown at c . In like manner , a piece of fossil wood ( a , Figure 13 ) has been perforated by a kindred but extinct genus , the Teredina of Lamarck . The calcareous tube of this mollusk was united and , as it were , soldered on to the valves of the shell ( b ) , which therefore can not be detached from the tube , like the valves of the recent Teredo . The wood in this fossil specimen is now converted into a stony mass , a mixture of clay and lime ; but it must once have been buoyant and floating in the sea , when the Teredinae lived upon , and perforated it . Again , before the infant colony settled upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been floated down to the sea by a river , uprooted , perhaps , by a flood , or torn off and cast into the waves by the wind : and thus our thoughts are carried back to a prior period , when the tree grew for years on dry land , enjoying a fit soil and climate . STRATA OF ORGANIC ORIGIN . ( FIGURE 15 . Gaillonella ferruginea , Ehb . ) ( FIGURE 16 . Gaillonella distans , Ehb . ) ( FIGURE 17 . Bacillaria paradoxa. a . Front view . b . Side view . ) It has been already remarked that there are rocks in the interior of continents , at various depths in the earth , and at great heights above the sea , almost entirely made up of the remains of zoophytes and testacea . Such masses may be compared to modern oyster-beds and coral-reefs ; and , like them , the rate of increase must have been extremely gradual . But there are a variety of stone deposits in the earth 's crust , now proved to have been derived from plants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ until of late years , even by naturalists . Great surprise was therefore created some years since by the discovery of Professor Ehrenberg , of Berlin , that a certain kind of siliceous stone , called tripoli , was entirely composed of millions of the remains of organic beings , which were formerly referred to microscopic Infusoria , but which are now admitted to be plants . They abound in rivulets , lakes , and ponds in England and other countries , and are termed Diatomaceae by those naturalists who believe in their vegetable origin . The subject alluded to has long been well-known in the arts , under the name of infusorial earth or mountain meal , and is used in the form of powder for polishing stones and metals . It has been procured , among other places , from the mud of a lake at Dolgelly , in North Wales , and from Bilin , in Bohemia , in which latter place a single stratum , extending over a wide area , is no less than fourteen feet thick . This stone , when examined with a powerful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or frustules of the above-figured Diatomaceae , united together without any visible cement . It is difficult to convey an idea of their extreme minuteness ; but Ehrenberg estimates that in the Bilin tripoli there are 41,000 millions of individuals of the Gaillonella distans ( see Figure 16 ) in every cubic inch ( which weighs about 220 grains ) , or about 187 millions in a single grain . At every stroke , therefore , that we make with this polishing powder , several millions , perhaps tens of millions , of perfect fossils are crushed to atoms . A well-known substance , called bog-iron ore , often met with in peat-mosses , has often been shown by Ehrenberg to consist of innumerable articulated threads , of a yellow ochre colour , composed of silica , argillaceous matter , and peroxide of iron . These threads are the cases of a minute microscopic body , called Gaillonella ferruginea ( Figure 15 ) , associated with the siliceous frustules of other fresh-water algae . Layers of this iron ore occurring in Scotch peat bogs are often called " the pan , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clear much time must have been required for the accumulation of strata to which countless generations of Diatomaceae have contributed their remains ; and these discoveries lead us naturally to suspect that other deposits , of which the materials have been supposed to be inorganic , may in reality be composed chiefly of microscopic organic bodies . That this is the case with the white chalk , has often been imagined , and is now proved to be the fact . It has , moreover , been lately discovered that the chambers into which these Foraminifera are divided are actually often filled with thousands of well-preserved organic bodies , which abound in every minute grain of chalk , and are especially apparent in the white coating of flints , often accompanied by innumerable needle-shaped spiculae of sponges ( see Chapter 17 . ) . " The dust we tread upon was once alive ! "  --  Byron . How faint an idea does this exclamation of the poet convey of the real wonders of nature ! for here we discover proofs that the calcareous and siliceous dust of which hills are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every particle , albeit invisible to the naked eye , still retains the organic structure which , at periods of time incalculably remote , was impressed upon it by the powers of life . FRESH-WATER AND MARINE FOSSILS . Strata , whether deposited in salt or fresh water , have the same forms ; but the imbedded fossils are very different in the two cases , because the aquatic animals which frequent lakes and rivers are distinct from those inhabiting the sea . In the northern part of the Isle of Wight formations of marl and limestone , more than 50 feet thick occur , in which the shells are of extinct species . Yet we recognise their fresh-water origin , because they are of the same genera as those now abounding in ponds , lakes , and rivers , either in our own country or in warmer latitudes . In many parts of France  --  in Auvergne , for example  --  strata occur of limestone , marl , and sandstone hundreds of feet thick , which contain exclusively fresh-water and land shells , together with the remains of terrestrial quadrupeds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fresh-water deposits is exceedingly great ; and there are districts in Germany where the rocks scarcely contain any other fossils except snail-shells ( helices ) ; as , for instance , the limestone on the left bank of the Rhine , between Mayence and Worms , at Oppenheim , Findheim , Budenheim , and other places . In order to account for this phenomenon , the geologist has only to examine the small deltas of torrents which enter the Swiss lakes when the waters are low , such as the newly-formed plain where the Kander enters the Lake of Thun . He there sees sand and mud strewn over with innumerable dead land-shells , which have been brought down from the valleys in the Alps in the preceding spring , during the melting of the snows . Again , if we search the sands on the borders of the Rhine , in the lower part of its course , we find countless land-shells mixed with others of species belonging to lakes , stagnant pools , and marshes . These individuals have been washed away from the alluvial plains of the great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ others from the low country . Although fresh-water formations are often of great thickness , yet they are usually very limited in area when compared to marine deposits , just as lakes and estuaries are of small dimensions in comparison with seas . The absence of many fossil forms usually met with in marine strata , affords a useful negative indication of the fresh-water origin of a formation . For example , there are no sea-urchins , no corals , no chambered shells , such as the nautilus , nor microscopic Foraminifera in lacustrine or fluviatile deposits . In distinguishing the latter from formations accumulated in the sea , we are chiefly guided by the forms of the mollusca . In a fresh-water deposit , the number of individual shells is often as great as in a marine stratum , if not greater ; but there is a smaller variety of species and genera . This might be anticipated from the fact that the genera and species of recent fresh-water and land shells are few when contrasted with the marine . Thus , the genera of true mollusca according to Woodward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shells , amount to 446 in number , of which the terrestrial and fresh-water genera scarcely form more than a fifth . ( See Woodward 's Manual of Mollusca 1856 . ) ( FIGURE 18 . Cyrena obovata , Sowerby ; fossil . Hants . ) ( FIGURE 19 . Cyrena ( Corbicella ) fluminalis , Moll. ; fossil . Grays , Essex . ) ( FIGURE 20 . Anodonta Cordierii ; D'Orbigny ; fossil . Paris . ) ( FIGURE 21 . Anodonta latimarginata ; recent . Bahia . ) ( FIGURE 22 . Unio littoralis . Lamarck ; recent . Auvergne . ) ( FIGURE 23 . Gryphaea incurva , Sowerby ; ( G. arcuata , Lamarck ) upper valve . Lias . ) Almost all bivalve shells , or those of acephalous mollusca , are marine , about sixteen only out of 140 genera being fresh-water . Among these last , the four most common forms , both recent and fossil , are Cyclas , Cyrena , Unio , and Anodonta ( see Figures 18-22 ) ; the two first and two last of which are so nearly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the bivalve mollusca into the Dimyary , or those having two large muscular impressions in each valve , as a , b in the Cyclas , Figure 18 , and Unio , Figure 22 , and the Monomyary , such as the oyster and scallop , in which there is only one of these impressions , as is seen in Figure 23 . Now , as none of these last , or the unimuscular bivalves , are fresh-water , we may at once presume a deposit containing any of them to be marine . ( The fresh-water Mulleria , when young , forms a single exception to the rule , as it then has two muscular impressions , but it has only one in the adult state . ) ( FIGURE 24 . Planorbis euomphalus , Sowerby ; fossil . Isle of Wight . ) ( FIGURE 25 . Limnaea longiscala , Brongniart ; fossil . Isle of Wight . ) ( FIGURE 26 . Paludina lenta , Brand. ; fossil . Isle of Wight . ) ( FIGURE 27 . Succinea amphibia , Drap . ( S. putris , L. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ FIGURE 28 . Ancylus velletia ( A. elegans ) , Sowerby ; fossil . Isle of Wight . ) ( FIGURE 29 . Valvata piscinalis , Mull. ; fossil . Grays , Essex . ) ( FIGURE 30 . Physa hypnorum , Linne ; recent . Isle of Wight . ) ( FIGURE 31 . Auricula ; recent . Ava . ) ( FIGURE 32 . Melania inquinata , Def . Paris basin . ) ( FIGURE 33 . Physa columnaris , Desh . Paris basin . ) ( FIGURE 34 . Melanopsis buccinoidea , Ferr. ; recent . Asia . ) The univalve shells most characteristic of fresh-water deposits are , Planorbis , Limnaea , and Paludina . ( See Figures 24-26 . ) But to these are occasionally added Physa , Succinea , Ancylus , Valvata , Melanopsis , Melania , Potamides , and Neritina ( see Figures 27-34 ) , the four last being usually found in estuaries . ( FIGURE 35 . Neritina globulus , Def . Paris basin . ) ( FIGURE 36 . Nerita granulosa , Desh . Paris basin . ) Some naturalists include @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Figure 36 ) in the same genus , it being scarcely possible to distinguish the two by good generic characters . But , as a general rule , the fluviatile species are smaller , smoother , and more globular than the marine ; and they have never , like the Neritae , the inner margin of the outer lip toothed or crenulated . ( See Figure 36 . ) ( FIGURE 37 . Potamides cinctus , Sowerby . Paris basin . ) The Potamides inhabit the mouths of rivers in warm latitudes , and are distinguishable from the marine Cerithia by their orbicular and multispiral opercula . The genus Auricula ( Figure 31 ) is amphibious , frequenting swamps and marshes within the influence of the tide . ( FIGURE 38 . Helix Turonensis , Desh. ; faluns , Touraine . ) ( FIGURE 39 . Cyclostoma elegans , Mull. ; Loess . ) ( FIGURE 40 . Pupa tridens , Drap. ; Loess . ) ( FIGURE 41 . Clausilia bidens , Drap. ; Loess . ) ( FIGURE 42 . Bulimus lubricus , Mull. ; Loess , Rhine . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ important genera among these , both in a recent and fossil state , are Helix ( Figure 38 ) , Cyclostoma ( Figure 39 ) , Pupa ( Figure 40 ) , Clausilia ( Figure 41 ) Bulimus ( Figure 42 ) , Glandina and Achatina . ( FIGURE 43 . Ampullaria glauca , from the Jumna . ) Ampullaria ( Figure 43 ) is another genus of shells inhabiting rivers and ponds in hot countries . Many fossil species formerly referred to this genus , and which have been met with chiefly in marine formations , are now considered by conchologists to belong to Natica and other marine genera . ( FIGURE 44 . Pleurotoma exorta , Brand . Upper and Middle Eocene . Barton and Bracklesham . ) ( FIGURE 45 . Ancillaria subulata , Sowerby . Barton clay . Eocene . ) All univalve shells of land and fresh-water species , with the exception of Melanopsis ( Figure 34 ) , and Achatina , which has a slight indentation , have entire mouths ; and this circumstance may often serve as a convenient rule for distinguishing fresh-water from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the mouths are not entire , we may presume that the formation is marine . The aperture is said to be entire in such shells as the fresh-water Ampullaria and the land-shells ( Figures 38-42 ) , when its outline is not interrupted by an indentation or notch , such as that seen at b in Ancillaria ( Figure 45 ) ; or is not prolonged into a canal , as that seen at a in Pleurotoma ( Figure 44 ) . The mouths of a large proportion of the marine univalves have these notches or canals , and almost all species are carnivorous ; whereas nearly all testacea having entire mouths are plant-eaters , whether the species be marine , fresh-water , or terrestrial . There is , however , one genus which affords an occasional exception to one of the above rules . The Potamides ( Figure 37 ) , a subgenus of Cerithium , although provided with a short canal , comprises some species which inhabit salt , others brackish , and others fresh-water , and they are said to be all plant-eaters . Among the fossils @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a minute bivalve crustaceous animal . ( For figures of fossil species of Purbeck see below , Chapter 19 . ) Many minute living species of this genus swarm in lakes and stagnant pools in Great Britain ; but their shells are not , if considered separately , conclusive as to the fresh-water origin of a deposit , because the majority of species in another kindred genus of the same order , the Cytherina of Lamarck , inhabit salt-water ; and , although the animal differs slightly , the shell is scarcely distinguishable from that of the Cypris . FRESH-WATER FOSSIL PLANTS . ( FIGURE 46 . Chara medicaginula ; fossil . Upper Eocene , Isle of Wight . ) The seed-vessels and stems of Chara , a genus of aquatic plants , are very frequent in fresh-water strata . These seed-vessels were called , before their true nature was known , gyrogonites , and were supposed to be foraminiferous shells . ( See Figure 46 , a . ) ( FIGURE 47 . Chara elastica ; recent , Italy . a . Sessile seed-vessel between the divisions of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ section of a branch , with five seed-vessels , seen from below upward . ) The Charae inhabit the bottom of lakes and ponds , and flourish mostly where the water is charged with carbonate of lime . Their seed-vessels are covered with a very tough integument , capable of resisting decomposition ; to which circumstance we may attribute their abundance in a fossil state . Figure 47 represents a branch of one of many new species found by Professor Amici in the lakes of Northern Italy . The seed-vessel in this plant is more globular than in the British Charae , and therefore more nearly resembles in form the extinct fossil species found in England , France , and other countries . The stems , as well as the seed-vessels , of these plants occur both in modern shell-marl and in ancient fresh-water formations . They are generally composed of a large central tube surrounded by smaller ones ; the whole stem being divided at certain intervals by transverse partitions or joints . ( See b , Figure 46 . ) It is not uncommon to meet with layers of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trees , in strata containing fresh-water shells ; and we also find occasionally the teeth and bones of land quadrupeds , of species now unknown . The manner in which such remains are occasionally carried by rivers into lakes , especially during floods , has been fully treated of in the " Principles of Geology . " FRESH-WATER AND MARINE FISH . The remains of fish are occasionally useful in determining the fresh-water origin of strata . Certain genera , such as carp , perch , pike , and loach ( Cyprinus , Perca , Esox , and Cobitis ) , as also Lebias , being peculiar to fresh-water . Other genera contain some fresh-water and some marine species , as Cottus , Mugil , and Anguilla , or eel . The rest are either common to rivers and the sea , as the salmon ; or are exclusively characteristic of salt-water . The above observations respecting fossil fishes are applicable only to the more modern or tertiary deposits ; for in the more ancient rocks the forms depart so widely from those of existing fishes , that it is very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to derive any positive information from ichthyolites respecting the element in which strata were deposited . The alternation of marine and fresh-water formations , both on a small and large scale , are facts well ascertained in geology . When it occurs on a small scale , it may have arisen from the alternate occupation of certain spaces by river-water and the sea ; for in the flood season the river forces back the ocean and freshens it over a large area , depositing at the same time its sediment ; after which the salt-water again returns , and , on resuming its former place , brings with it sand , mud , and marine shells . There are also lagoons at the mouth of many rivers , as the Nile and Mississippi , which are divided off by bars of sand from the sea , and which are filled with salt and fresh water by turns . They often communicate exclusively with the river for months , years , or even centuries ; and then a breach being made in the bar of sand , they are for long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jutland offers an excellent illustration of analogous changes ; for , in the course of the last thousand years , the western extremity of this long frith , which is 120 miles in length , including its windings , has been four times fresh and four times salt , a bar of sand between it and the ocean having been often formed and removed . The last irruption of salt water happened in 1824 , when the North Sea entered , killing all the fresh-water shells , fish , and plants ; and from that time to the present , the sea-weed Fucus vesiculosus , together with oysters and other marine mollusca , have succeeded the Cyclas , Lymnaea , Paludina , and Charae . ( See Principles Index " Lym-Fiord . " ) But changes like these in the Lym-Fiord , and those before mentioned as occurring at the mouths of great rivers , will only account for some cases of marine deposits of partial extent resting on fresh-water strata . When we find , as in the south-east of England ( Chapter 18 ) , a great series of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ marine formations and again covered by other rocks , such as the Cretaceous , more than 1000 feet thick , and of deep-sea origin , we shall find it necessary to seek for a different explanation of the phenomena . CHAPTER IV . CONSOLIDATION OF STRATA AND PETRIFACTION OF FOSSILS . Chemical and Mechanical Deposits . Cementing together of Particles . Hardening by Exposure to Air . Concretionary Nodules . Consolidating Effects of Pressure . Mineralization of Organic Remains . Impressions and Casts : how formed . Fossil Wood . Goppert 's Experiments . Precipitation of Stony Matter most rapid where Putrefaction is going on . Sources of Lime and Silex in Solution . Having spoken in the preceding chapters of the characters of sedimentary formations , both as dependent on the deposition of inorganic matter and the distribution of fossils , I may next treat of the consolidation of stratified rocks , and the petrifaction of imbedded organic remains . CHEMICAL AND MECHANICAL DEPOSITS . A distinction has been made by geologists between deposits of a mechanical , and those of a chemical , origin . By the name mechanical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ produced by the action of running water , also accumulations of stones and scoriae thrown out by a volcano , which have fallen into their present place by the force of gravitation . But the matter which forms a chemical deposit has not been mechanically suspended in water , but in a state of solution until separated by chemical action . In this manner carbonate of lime is occasionally precipitated upon the bottom of lakes in a solid form , as may be well seen in many parts of Italy , where mineral springs abound , and where the calcareous stone , called travertin , is deposited . In these springs the lime is usually held in solution by an excess of carbonic acid , or by heat if it be a hot spring , until the water , on issuing from the earth , cools or loses part of its acid . The calcareous matter then falls down in a solid state , incrusting shells , fragments of wood and leaves , and binding them together . That similar travertin is formed at some points in the bed of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but as a general rule the quantity of lime , according to Bischoff , spread through the waters of the ocean is very small , the free carbonic acid gas in the same waters being five times as much as is necessary to keep the lime in a fluid state . Carbonate of lime , therefore , can rarely be precipitated at the bottom of the sea by chemical action alone , but must be produced by vital agency as in the case of coral reefs . In such reefs , large masses of limestone are formed by the stony skeletons of zoophytes ; and these , together with shells , become cemented together by carbonate of lime , part of which is probably furnished to the sea-water by the decomposition of dead corals . Even shells , of which the animals are still living on these reefs , are very commonly found to be incrusted over with a hard coating of limestone . If sand and pebbles are carried by a river into the sea , and these are bound together immediately by carbonate of lime , the deposit may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and partly mechanical . Now , the remarks already made in Chapter 2 on the original horizontality of strata are strictly applicable to mechanical deposits , and only partially to those of a mixed nature . Such as are purely chemical may be formed on a very steep slope , or may even incrust the vertical walls of a fissure , and be of equal thickness throughout ; but such deposits are of small extent , and for the most part confined to vein-stones . CONSOLIDATION OF STRATA . It is chiefly in the case of calcareous rocks that solidification takes place at the time of deposition . But there are many deposits in which a cementing process comes into operation long afterwards . We may sometimes observe , where the water of ferruginous or calcareous springs has flowed through a bed of sand or gravel , that iron or carbonate of lime has been deposited in the interstices between the grains or pebbles , so that in certain places the whole has been bound together into a stone , the same set of strata remaining in other parts loose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seen in a rock at Kelloway , in Wiltshire . A peculiar band of sandy strata belonging to the group called Oolite by geologists may be traced through several counties , the sand being for the most part loose and unconsolidated , but becoming stony near Kelloway . In this district there are numerous fossil shells which have decomposed , having for the most part left only their casts . The calcareous matter hence derived has evidently served , at some former period , as a cement to the siliceous grains of sand , and thus a solid sandstone has been produced . If we take fragments of many other argillaceous grits , retaining the casts of shells , and plunge them into dilute muriatic or other acid , we see them immediately changed into common sand and mud ; the cement of lime , derived from the shells , having been dissolved by the acid . Traces of impressions and casts are often extremely faint . In some loose sands of recent date we meet with shells in so advanced a stage of decomposition as to crumble into powder when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may soon remove the calcareous matter of the shell ; and unless circumstances cause the carbonate of lime to be again deposited , the grains of sand will not be cemented together ; in which case no memorial of the fossil will remain . In what manner silex and carbonate of lime may become widely diffused in small quantities through the waters which permeate the earth 's crust will be spoken of presently , when the petrifaction of fossil bodies is considered ; but I may remark here that such waters are always passing in the case of thermal springs from hotter to colder parts of the interior of the earth ; and , as often as the temperature of the solvent is lowered , mineral matter has a tendency to separate from it and solidify . Thus a stony cement is often supplied to sand , pebbles , or any fragmentary mixture . In some conglomerates , like the pudding-stone of Hertfordshire ( a Lower Eocene deposit ) , pebbles of flint and grains of sand are united by a siliceous cement so firmly , that if a block be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as through the cement . It is probable that many strata became solid at the time when they emerged from the waters in which they were deposited , and when they first formed a part of the dry land . A well-known fact seems to confirm this idea : by far the greater number of the stones used for building and road-making are much softer when first taken from the quarry than after they have been long exposed to the air ; and these , when once dried , may afterwards be immersed for any length of time in water without becoming soft again . Hence it is found desirable to shape the stones which are to be used in architecture while they are yet soft and wet , and while they contain their " quarry-water , " as it is called ; also to break up stone intended for roads when soft , and then leave it to dry in the air for months that it may harden . Such induration may perhaps be accounted for by supposing the water , which penetrates the minutest pores of rocks , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , silex , and other minerals previously held in solution , and thereby to fill up the pores partially . These particles , on crystallising , would not only be themselves deprived of freedom of motion , but would also bind together other portions of the rock which before were loosely aggregated . On the same principle wet sand and mud become as hard as stone when frozen ; because one ingredient of the mass , namely , the water , has crystallised , so as to hold firmly together all the separate particles of which the loose mud and sand were composed . Dr. MacCulloch mentions a sandstone in Skye , which may be moulded like dough when first found ; and some simple minerals , which are rigid and as hard as glass in our cabinets , are often flexible and soft in their native beds : this is the case with asbestos , sahlite , tremolite , and chalcedony , and it is reported also to happen in the case of the beryl . ( Dr. MacCulloch System of Geology volume 1 page 123 . ) The marl @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ North America , is soft , and often filled with fresh-water shells ; but if a piece be taken up and dried , it becomes so hard that it can only be broken by a smart blow of the hammer . If the lake , therefore , was drained , such a deposit would be found to consist of strata of marlstone , like that observed in many ancient European formations , and , like them , containing fresh-water shells . CONCRETIONARY STRUCTURE . ( FIGURE 48 . Calcareous nodules in Lias . ) It is probable that some of the heterogeneous materials which rivers transport to the sea may at once set under water , like the artificial mixture called pozzolana , which consists of fine volcanic sand charged with about twenty per cent of oxide of iron , and the addition of a small quantity of lime . This substance hardens , and becomes a solid stone in water , and was used by the Romans in constructing the foundations of buildings in the sea . Consolidation in such cases is brought about by the action of chemical affinity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deposition similar particles seem often to exert a mutual attraction on each other , and congregate together in particular spots , forming lumps , nodules , and concretions . Thus in many argillaceous deposits there are calcareous balls , or spherical concretions , ranged in layers parallel to the general stratification ; an arrangement which took place after the shale or marl had been thrown down in successive laminae ; for these laminae are often traceable through the concretions , remaining parallel to those of the surrounding unconsolidated rock . ( See Figure 48 . ) Such nodules of limestone have often a shell or other foreign body in the centre . ( FIGURE 49 . Spheroidal concretions in magnesian limestone . ) Among the most remarkable examples of concretionary structure are those described by Professor Sedgwick as abounding in the magnesian limestone of the north of England . The spherical balls are of various sizes , from that of a pea to a diameter of several feet , and they have both a concentric and radiated structure , while at the same time the laminae of original deposition pass uninterruptedly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great irregular pile of cannon-balls . Some of the globular masses have their centre in one stratum , while a portion of their exterior passes through to the stratum above or below . Thus the larger spheroid in the section ( Figure 49 ) passes from the stratum b upward into a . In this instance we must suppose the deposition of a series of minor layers , first forming the stratum b , and afterwards the incumbent stratum a ; then a movement of the particles took place , and the carbonates of lime and magnesia separated from the more impure and mixed matter forming the still unconsolidated parts of the stratum . Crystallisation , beginning at the centre , must have gone on forming concentric coats around the original nucleus without interfering with the laminated structure of the rock . ( FIGURE 50 . Section through strata of grit . ) When the particles of rocks have been thus rearranged by chemical forces , it is sometimes difficult or impossible to ascertain whether certain lines of division are due to original deposition or to the subsequent aggregation of several @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , B , C , are charged unequally with calcareous matter , and that B is the most calcareous . If consolidation takes place in B , the concretionary action may spread upward into a part of A , where the carbonate of lime is more abundant than in the rest ; so that a mass , d e f , forming a portion of the superior stratum , becomes united with B into one solid mass of stone . The original line of division , d e , being thus effaced , the line d f would generally be considered as the surface of the bed B , though not strictly a true plane of stratification . ( Figure 50 . ) PRESSURE AND HEAT . When sand and mud sink to the bottom of a deep sea , the particles are not pressed down by the enormous weight of the incumbent ocean ; for the water , which becomes mingled with the sand and mud , resists pressure with a force equal to that of the column of fluid above . The same happens in regard to organic remains @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sink , otherwise they would be immediately crushed to pieces and flattened . Nevertheless , if the materials of a stratum remain in a yielding state , and do not set or solidify , they will be gradually squeezed down by the weight of other materials successively heaped upon them , just as soft clay or loose sand on which a house is built may give way . By such downward pressure particles of clay , sand , and marl may become packed into a smaller space , and be made to cohere together permanently . Analogous effects of condensation may arise when the solid parts of the earth 's crust are forced in various directions by those mechanical movements hereafter to be described , by which strata have been bent , broken , and raised above the level of the sea . Rocks of more yielding materials must often have been forced against others previously consolidated , and may thus by compression have acquired a new structure . A recent discovery may help us to comprehend how fine sediment derived from the detritus of rocks may be solidified by mere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commerce having become very scarce , Mr. Brockedon contrived a method by which the dust of the purer portions of the mineral found in Borrowdale might be recomposed into a mass as dense and compact as native graphite . The powder of graphite is first carefully prepared and freed from air , and placed under a powerful press on a strong steel die , with air-tight fittings . It is then struck several blows , each of a power of 1000 tons ; after which operation the powder is so perfectly solidified that it can be cut for pencils , and exhibits when broken the same texture as native graphite . But the action of heat at various depths in the earth is probably the most powerful of all causes in hardening sedimentary strata . To this subject I shall refer again when treating of the metamorphic rocks , and of the slaty and jointed structure . MINERALISATION OF ORGANIC REMAINS . ( FIGURE 51 . Phasianella Heddingtonensis , and cast of the same . Coral Rag . ) ( FIGURE 52 . Pleurotomaria Anglica , and cast . Lias . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they were first imbedded in rocks , throw much light on the consolidation of strata . Fossil shells in some modern deposits have been scarcely altered in the course of centuries , having simply lost a part of their animal matter . But in other cases the shell has disappeared , and left an impression only of its exterior , or , secondly , a cast of its interior form , or , thirdly , a cast of the shell itself , the original matter of which has been removed . These different forms of fossilisation may easily be understood if we examine the mud recently thrown out from a pond or canal in which there are shells . If the mud be argillaceous , it acquires consistency on drying , and on breaking open a portion of it we find that each shell has left impressions of its external form . If we then remove the shell itself , we find within a solid nucleus of clay , having the form of the interior of the shell . This form is often very different from that of the outer shell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , commonly called a fossil screw , would never be suspected by an inexperienced conchologist to be the internal shape of the fossil univalve , b , Figure 51 . Nor should we have imagined at first sight that the shell a and the cast b , Figure 52 , belong to one and the same fossil . The reader will observe , in the last-mentioned figure ( b , Figure 52 ) , that an empty space shaded dark , which the SHELL ITSELF once occupied , now intervenes between the enveloping stone and the cast of the smooth interior of the whorls . In such cases the shell has been dissolved and the component particles removed by water percolating the rock . If the nucleus were taken out , a hollow mould would remain , on which the external form of the shell with its tubercles and striae , as seen in a , Figure 52 , would be seen embossed . Now if the space alluded to between the nucleus and the impression , instead of being left empty , has been filled up with calcareous spar , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obtain from the mould an exact cast both of the external and internal form of the original shell . In this manner silicified casts of shells have been formed ; and if the mud or sand of the nucleus happen to be incoherent , or soluble in acid , we can then procure in flint an empty shell , which in shape is the exact counterpart of the original . This cast may be compared to a bronze statue , representing merely the superficial form , and not the internal organisation ; but there is another description of petrifaction by no means uncommon , and of a much more wonderful kind , which may be compared to certain anatomical models in wax , where not only the outward forms and features , but the nerves , blood-vessels , and other internal organs are also shown . Thus we find corals , originally calcareous , in which not only the general shape , but also the minute and complicated internal organisation is retained in flint . ( FIGURE 53 . Section of a tree from the coal-measures , magnified ( Witham ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of petrifaction is still more remarkably exhibited in fossil wood , in which we often perceive not only the rings of annual growth , but all the minute vessels and medullary rays . Many of the minute cells and fibres of plants , and even those spiral vessels which in the living vegetable can only be discovered by the microscope , are preserved . Among many instances , I may mention a fossil tree , seventy-two feet in length , found at Gosforth , near Newcastle , in sandstone strata associated with coal . By cutting a transverse slice so thin as to transmit light , and magnifying it about fifty-five times , the texture , as seen in Figure 53 , is exhibited . A texture equally minute and complicated has been observed in the wood of large trunks of fossil trees found in the Craigleith quarry near Edinburgh , where the stone was not in the slightest degree siliceous , but consisted chiefly of carbonate of lime , with oxide of iron , alumina , and carbon . The parallel rows of vessels here seen are the rings of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preserved , the wood having probably decayed before the mineralising matter had penetrated to that portion of the tree . In attempting to explain the process of petrifaction in such cases , we may first assume that strata are very generally permeated by water charged with minute portions of calcareous , siliceous , and other earths in solution . In what manner they become so impregnated will be afterwards considered . If an organic substance is exposed in the open air to the action of the sun and rain , it will in time putrefy , or be dissolved into its component elements , consisting usually of oxygen , hydrogen , nitrogen , and carbon . These will readily be absorbed by the atmosphere or be washed away by rain , so that all vestiges of the dead animal or plant disappear . But if the same substances be submerged in water , they decompose more gradually ; and if buried in earth , still more slowly ; as in the familiar example of wooden piles or other buried timber . Now , if as fast as each particle is set @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a particle equally minute of carbonate of lime , flint , or other mineral , is at hand ready to be precipitated , we may imagine this inorganic matter to take the place just before left unoccupied by the organic molecule . In this manner a cast of the interior of certain vessels may first be taken , and afterwards the more solid walls of the same may decay and suffer a like transmutation . Yet when the whole is lapidified , it may not form one homogeneous mass of stone or metal . Some of the original ligneous , osseous , or other organic elements may remain mingled in certain parts , or the lapidifying substance itself may be differently coloured at different times , or so crystallised as to reflect light differently , and thus the texture of the original body may be faithfully exhibited . The student may perhaps ask whether , on chemical principles , we have any ground to expect that mineral matter will be thrown down precisely in those spots where organic decomposition is in progress ? The following curious experiments may serve to illustrate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ view of imitating the natural process of petrifaction , steeped a variety of animal and vegetable substances in waters , some holding siliceous , others calcareous , others metallic matter in solution . He found that in the period of a few weeks , or sometimes even days , the organic bodies thus immersed were mineralised to a certain extent . Thus , for example , thin vertical slices of deal , taken from the Scotch fir ( Pinus sylvestris ) , were immersed in a moderately strong solution of sulphate of iron . When they had been thoroughly soaked in the liquid for several days they were dried and exposed to a red-heat until the vegetable matter was burnt up and nothing remained but an oxide of iron , which was found to have taken the form of the deal so exactly that casts even of the dotted vessels peculiar to this family of plants were distinctly visible under the microscope . The late Dr. Turner observes , that when mineral matter is in a " nascent state , " that is to say , just liberated from a previous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unite with other matter , and form a new chemical compound . Probably the particles or atoms just set free are of extreme minuteness , and therefore move more freely , and are more ready to obey any impulse of chemical affinity . Whatever be the cause , it clearly follows , as before stated , that where organic matter newly imbedded in sediment is decomposing , there will chemical changes take place most actively . An analysis was lately made of the water which was flowing off from the rich mud deposited by the Hooghly River in the Delta of the Ganges after the annual inundation . This water was found to be highly charged with carbonic acid holding lime in solution . ( Piddington Asiatic Researches volume 18 page 226 . ) Now if newly-deposited mud is thus proved to be permeated by mineral matter in a state of solution , it is not difficult to perceive that decomposing organic bodies , naturally imbedded in sediment , may as readily become petrified as the substances artificially immersed by Professor Goppert in various fluid mixtures . It is well known @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ charged with earthy , alkaline , or metallic ingredients derived from the rocks and mineral veins through which they percolate . Silex is especially abundant in hot springs , and carbonate of lime is almost always present in greater or less quantity . The materials for the petrifaction of organic remains are , therefore , usually at hand in a state of chemical solution wherever organic remains are imbedded in new strata . CHAPTER V. ELEVATION OF STRATA ABOVE THE SEA .  --  HORIZONTAL AND INCLINED STRATIFICATION . Why the Position of Marine Strata , above the Level of the Sea , should be referred to the rising up of the Land , not to the going down of the Sea . Strata of Deep-sea and Shallow-water Origin alternate . Also Marine and Fresh-water Beds and old Land Surfaces . Vertical , inclined , and folded Strata . Anticlinal and Synclinal Curves . Theories to explain Lateral Movements . Creeps in Coal-mines . Dip and Strike . Structure of the Jura . Various Forms of Outcrop . Synclinal Strata forming Ridges . Connection of Fracture and Flexure of Rocks . Inverted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obliterated by Denudation . Great Faults the Result of repeated Movements . Arrangement and Direction of parallel Folds of Strata . Unconformability . Overlapping Strata . LAND HAS BEEN RAISED , NOT THE SEA LOWERED . It has been already stated that the aqueous rocks containing marine fossils extend over wide continental tracts , and are seen in mountain chains rising to great heights above the level of the sea ( Chapter 1 ) . Hence it follows , that what is now dry land was once under water . But if we admit this conclusion , we must imagine , either that there has been a general lowering of the waters of the ocean , or that the solid rocks , once covered by water , have been raised up bodily out of the sea , and have thus become dry land . The earlier geologists , finding themselves reduced to this alternative , embraced the former opinion , assuming that the ocean was originally universal , and had gradually sunk down to its actual level , so that the present islands and continents were left dry . It seemed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gone down , than that solid land had risen upward into its present position . It was , however , impossible to invent any satisfactory hypothesis to explain the disappearance of so enormous a body of water throughout the globe , it being necessary to infer that the ocean had once stood at whatever height marine shells might be detected . It moreover appeared clear , as the science of geology advanced , that certain spaces on the globe had been alternately sea , then land , then estuary , then sea again , and , lastly , once more habitable land , having remained in each of these states for considerable periods . In order to account for such phenomena without admitting any movement of the land itself , we are required to imagine several retreats and returns of the ocean ; and even then our theory applies merely to cases where the marine strata composing the dry land are horizontal , leaving unexplained those more common instances where strata are inclined , curved , or placed on their edges , and evidently not in the position in which they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last compelled to have recourse to the doctrine that the solid land has been repeatedly moved upward or downward , so as permanently to change its position relatively to the sea . There are several distinct grounds for preferring this conclusion . First , it will account equally for the position of those elevated masses of marine origin in which the stratification remains horizontal , and for those in which the strata are disturbed , broken , inclined , or vertical . Secondly , it is consistent with human experience that land should rise gradually in some places and be depressed in others . Such changes have actually occurred in our own days , and are now in progress , having been accompanied in some cases by violent convulsions , while in others they have proceeded so insensibly as to have been ascertainable only by the most careful scientific observations , made at considerable intervals of time . On the other hand , there is no evidence from human experience of a rising or lowering of the sea 's level in any region , and the ocean can not be raised @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all over the globe . These preliminary remarks will prepare the reader to understand the great theoretical interest attached to all facts connected with the position of strata , whether horizontal or inclined , curved or vertical . Now the first and most simple appearance is where strata of marine origin occur above the level of the sea in horizontal position . Such are the strata which we meet with in the south of Sicily , filled with shells for the most part of the same species as those now living in the Mediterranean . Some of these rocks rise to the height of more than 2000 feet above the sea . Other mountain masses might be mentioned , composed of horizontal strata of high antiquity , which contain fossil remains of animals wholly dissimilar from any now known to exist . In the south of Sweden , for example , near Lake Wener , the beds of some of the oldest fossiliferous deposits , called Silurian and Cambrian by geologists , occur in as level a position as if they had recently formed part of the delta of a great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the annual floods . Aqueous rocks of equal antiquity extend for hundreds of miles over the lake-district of North America , and exhibit in like manner a stratification nearly undisturbed . The Table Mountain at the Cape of Good Hope is another example of highly elevated yet perfectly horizontal strata , no less than 3500 feet in thickness , and consisting of sandstone of very ancient date . Instead of imagining that such fossiliferous rocks were always at their present level , and that the sea was once high enough to cover them , we suppose them to have constituted the ancient bed of the ocean , and to have been afterwards uplifted to their present height . This idea , however startling it may at first appear , is quite in accordance , as before stated , with the analogy of changes now going on in certain regions of the globe . Thus , in parts of Sweden , and the shores and islands of the Gulf of Bothnia , proofs have been obtained that the land is experiencing , and has experienced for centuries , a slow upheaving movement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 314 . ) It appears from the observations of Mr. Darwin and others , that very extensive regions of the continent of South America have been undergoing slow and gradual upheaval , by which the level plains of Patagonia , covered with recent marine shells , and the Pampas of Buenos Ayres , have been raised above the level of the sea . On the other hand , the gradual sinking of the west coast of Greenland , for the space of more than 600 miles from north to south , during the last four centuries , has been established by the observations of a Danish naturalist , Dr. Pingel . And while these proofs of continental elevation and subsidence , by slow and insensible movements , have been recently brought to light , the evidence has been daily strengthened of continued changes of level effected by violent convulsions in countries where earthquakes are frequent . There the rocks are rent from time to time , and heaved up or thrown down several feet at once , and disturbed in such a manner as to show how entirely the original position @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Mr. Darwin has also inferred that , in those seas where circular coral islands and barrier reefs abound , there is a slow and continued sinking of the submarine mountains on which the masses of coral are based ; while there are other areas of the South Sea where the land is on the rise , and where coral has been upheaved far above the sea-level . ALTERNATIONS OF MARINE AND FRESH-WATER STRATA . It has been shown in the third chapter that there is such a difference between land , fresh-water , and marine fossils as to enable the geologist to determine whether particular groups of strata were formed at the bottom of the ocean or in estuaries , rivers , or lakes . If surprise was at first created by the discovery of marine corals and shells at the height of several miles above the sea-level , the imagination was afterwards not less startled by observing that in the successive strata composing the earth 's crust , especially if their total thickness amounted to thousands of feet , they comprised in some parts formations of shallow-sea as well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even of purely fresh-water formation , as well as vegetable matter or coal accumulated on ancient land . In these cases we as frequently find fresh-water beds below a marine set or shallow-water under those of deep-sea origin as the reverse . Thus , if we bore an artesian well below London , we pass through a marine clay , and there reach , at the depth of several hundred feet , a shallow-water and fluviatile sand , beneath which comes the white chalk originally formed in a deep sea . Or if we bore vertically through the chalk of the North Downs , we come , after traversing marine chalky strata , upon a fresh-water formation many hundreds of feet thick , called the Wealden , such as is seen in Kent and Surrey , which is known in its turn to rest on purely marine beds . In like manner , in various parts of Great Britain we sink vertical shafts through marine deposits of great thickness , and come upon coal which was formed by the growth of plants on an ancient land-surface sometimes hundreds of square miles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ( FIGURE 54 . Vertical conglomerate and sandstone . ) It has been stated that marine strata of different ages are sometimes found at a considerable height above the sea , yet retaining their original horizontality ; but this state of things is quite exceptional . As a general rule , strata are inclined or bent in such a manner as to imply that their original position has been altered . ( FIGURE 55 . Section of Forfarshire , from N.W. to S.E. , from the foot of the Grampians to the sea at Arbroath ( volcanic or trap rocks omitted ) . Length of section twenty miles . From S.E. ( left ) Sea : Whiteness , Arbroath : Strata a , 2 , 3 : Leys Mill : Strata 4 : Sidlaw Hills . Viney R. : Strata B : Pitmuies : Strata 4 : Position and nature of the rocks below No. 4 unknown : Turin : Findhaven : Strata 3 , 2 , A : Valley of Strathmore : Strata 1 , 2 , 3 : W. Ogle : Strata 4 and Clay-Slate : to N.W. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such a change is afforded by their standing up vertically , showing their edges , which is by no means a rare phenomenon , especially in mountainous countries . Thus we find in Scotland , on the southern skirts of the Grampians , beds of pudding-stone alternating with thin layers of fine sand , all placed vertically to the horizon . When Saussure first observed certain conglomerates in a similar position in the Swiss Alps , he remarked that the pebbles , being for the most part of an oval shape , had their longer axes parallel to the planes of stratification ( see Figure 54 ) . From this he inferred that such strata must , at first , have been horizontal , each oval pebble having settled at the bottom of the water , with its flatter side parallel to the horizon , for the same reason that an egg will not stand on either end if unsupported . Some few , indeed , of the rounded stones in a conglomerate occasionally afford an exception to the above rule , for the same reason that in a river 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rest on their ends or edges ; these having been shoved against or between other stones by a wave or current , so as to assume this position . ANTICLINAL AND SYNCLINAL CURVES . Vertical strata , when they can be traced continuously upward or downward for some depth , are almost invariably seen to be parts of great curves , which may have a diameter of a few yards , or of several miles . I shall first describe two curves of considerable regularity , which occur in Forfarshire , extending over a country twenty miles in breadth , from the foot of the Grampians to the sea near Arbroath . The mass of strata here shown may be 2000 feet in thickness , consisting of red and white sandstone , and various coloured shales , the beds being distinguishable into four principal groups , namely , No. 1 , red marl or shale ; No. 2 , red sandstone , used for building ; No. 3 , conglomerate ; and No. 4 , grey paving-stone , and tile-stone , with green and reddish shale , containing peculiar organic remains @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will show that each of the formations 2 , 3 , 4 are repeated thrice at the surface , twice with a southerly , and once with a northerly inclination or DIP , and the beds in No. 1 , which are nearly horizontal , are still brought up twice by a slight curvature to the surface , once on each side of A. Beginning at the north-west extremity , the tile-stones and conglomerates , No. 4 and No. 3 , are vertical , and they generally form a ridge parallel to the southern skirts of the Grampians . The superior strata , Nos. 2 and 1 , become less and less inclined on descending to the valley of Strathmore , where the strata , having a concave bend , are said by geologists to lie in a " trough " or " basin . " Through the centre of this valley runs an imaginary line A , called technically a " synclinal line , " where the beds , which are tilted in opposite directions , may be supposed to meet . It is most important for the observer to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diagram that , in travelling from the north to the centre of the basin , he is always passing from older to newer beds ; whereas , after crossing the line A , and pursuing his course in the same southerly direction , he is continually leaving the newer , and advancing upon older strata . All the deposits which he had before examined begin then to recur in reversed order , until he arrives at the central axis of the Sidlaw hills , where the strata are seen to form an arch , or SADDLE , having an ANTICLINAL line , B , in the centre . On passing this line , and continuing towards the S.E. , the formations 4 , 3 , and 2 , are again repeated , in the same relative order of superposition , but with a southerly dip . At Whiteness ( see Figure 55 ) it will be seen that the inclined strata are covered by a newer deposit , a , in horizontal beds . These are composed of red conglomerate and sand , and are newer than any of the groups @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ described , and rest UNCONFORMABLY upon strata of the sandstone group , No. 2 . An example of curved strata , in which the bends or convolutions of the rock are sharper and far more numerous within an equal space , has been well described by Sir James Hall . ( Edinburgh Transactions volume 7 plate 3 . ) It occurs near St. Abb 's Head , on the east coast of Scotland , where the rocks consist principally of a bluish slate , having frequently a ripple-marked surface . The undulations of the beds reach from the top to the bottom of cliffs from 200 to 300 feet in height , and there are sixteen distinct bendings in the course of about six miles , the curvatures being alternately concave and convex upward . FOLDING BY LATERAL MOVEMENT . ( FIGURE 56 . Curved strata of slate near St. Abb 's Head , Berwickshire . ( Sir J. Hall . ) ( FIGURE 57 . Curved strata in line of cliff . ) ( FIGURE 58 . Folded cloths imitating bent strata . ) An experiment was made by Sir @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in which such strata , assuming them to have been originally horizontal , may have been forced into their present position . A set of layers of clay were placed under a weight , and their opposite ends pressed towards each other with such force as to cause them to approach more nearly together . On the removal of the weight , the layers of clay were found to be curved and folded , so as to bear a miniature resemblance to the strata in the cliffs . We must , however , bear in mind that in the natural section or sea-cliff we only see the foldings imperfectly , one part being invisible beneath the sea , and the other , or upper portion , being supposed to have been carried away by DENUDATION , or that action of water which will be explained in the next chapter . The dark lines in the plan ( Figure 57 ) represent what is actually seen of the strata in the line of cliff alluded to ; the fainter lines , that portion which is concealed beneath the sea-level , as also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present surface . We may still more easily illustrate the effects which a lateral thrust might produce on flexible strata , by placing several pieces of differently coloured cloths upon a table , and when they are spread out horizontally , cover them with a book . Then apply other books to each end , and force them towards each other . The folding of the cloths ( see Figure 58 ) will imitate those of the bent strata ; the incumbent book being slightly lifted up , and no longer touching the two volumes on which it rested before , because it is supported by the tops of the anticlinal ridges formed by the curved cloths . In like manner there can be no doubt that the squeezed strata , although laterally condensed and more closely packed , are yet elongated and made to rise upward , in a direction perpendicular to the pressure . Whether the analogous flexures in stratified rocks have really been due to similar sideway movements is a question which we can not decide by reference to our own observation . Our inability to explain the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ owing to the inaccessibility of the subterranean regions where the mechanical force is exerted , but to the extreme slowness of the movement . The changes may sometimes be due to variation in the temperature of mountain masses of rock causing them , while still solid , to expand or contract ; or melting them , and then again cooling them and allowing them to crystallise . If such be the case , we have scarcely more reason to expect to witness the operation of the process within the limited periods of our scientific observation than to see the swelling of the roots of a tree , by which , in the course of years , a wall of solid masonry may be lifted up , rent or thrown down . In both instances the force may be irresistible , but though adequate , it need not be visible by us , provided the time required for its development be very great . The lateral pressure arising from the unequal expansion of rocks by heat may cause one mass lying in the same horizontal plane gradually to occupy a larger space @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , if flexible , may be squeezed into a bent and folded form . It will also appear , when the volcanic and granitic rocks are described , that some of them have , when melted in the interior of the earth 's crust , been injected forcibly into fissures , and after the solidification of such intruded matter , other sets of rents , crossing the first , have been formed and in their turn filled by melted rock . Such repeated injections imply a stretching , and often upheaval , of the whole mass . We also know , especially by the study of regions liable to earthquakes , that there are causes at work in the interior of the earth capable of producing a sinking in of the ground , sometimes very local , but often extending over a wide area . The continuance of such a downward movement , especially if partial and confined to linear areas , may produce regular folds in the strata . CREEPS IN COAL-MINES . The " creeps , " as they are called in coal-mines , afford an excellent illustration of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ generally , that the excavation of coal at a considerable depth causes the mass of overlying strata to sink down bodily , even when props are left to support the roof of the mine . " In Yorkshire , " says Mr. Buddle , " three distinct subsidences were perceptible at the surface , after the clearing out of three seams of coal below , and innumerable vertical cracks were caused in the incumbent mass of sandstone and shale which thus settled down . " ( Proceedings of Geological Society volume 3 page 148 . ) The exact amount of depression in these cases can only be accurately measured where water accumulates on the surface , or a railway traverses a coal-field . ( FIGURE 59 . Section of carboniferous strata at Wallsend , Newcastle , showing " creeps . " ( J. Buddle , Esq . ) Horizontal length of section 174 feet . The upper seam , or main coal , here worked out , was 630 feet below the surface . Section through , from top to bottom : Siliceous sandstone . Shale . 1 . Main coal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ b , c , d . Shale eighteen yards thick . 2 . Metal coal , 3 feet , with fractures e , f , g , h . ) When a bed of coal is worked out , pillars or rectangular masses of coal are left at intervals as props to support the roof , and protect the colliers . Thus in Figure 59 , representing a section at Wallsend , Newcastle , the galleries which have been excavated are represented by the white spaces a , b , while the adjoining dark portions are parts of the original coal seam left as props , beds of sandy clay or shale constituting the floor of the mine . When the props have been reduced in size , they are pressed down by the weight of overlying rocks ( no less than 630 feet thick ) upon the shale below , which is thereby squeezed and forced up into the open spaces . Now it might have been expected that , instead of the floor rising up , the ceiling would sink down , and this effect , called a " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where the pavement is more solid than the roof . But it usually happens , in coalmines , that the roof is composed of hard shale , or occasionally of sandstone , more unyielding than the foundation , which often consists of clay . Even where the argillaceous substrata are hard at first , they soon become softened and reduced to a plastic state when exposed to the contact of air and water in the floor of a mine . The first symptom of a " creep , " says Mr. Buddle , is a slight curvature at the bottom of each gallery , as at a , Figure 59 : then the pavement , continuing to rise , begins to open with a longitudinal crack , as at b ; then the points of the fractured ridge reach the roof , as at c ; and , lastly , the upraised beds close up the whole gallery , and the broken portions of the ridge are reunited and flattened at the top , exhibiting the flexure seen at d . Meanwhile the coal in the props has become crushed and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the creeps a , b , c , d , an inferior stratum , called the " metal coal , " which is 3 feet thick , has been fractured at the points e , f , g , h , and has risen , so as to prove that the upward movement , caused by the working out of the " main coal , " has been propagated through a thickness of 54 feet of argillaceous beds , which intervene between the two coal-seams . This same displacement has also been traced downward more than 150 feet below the metal coal , but it grows continually less and less until it becomes imperceptible . No part of the process above described is more deserving of our notice than the slowness with which the change in the arrangement of the beds is brought about . Days , months , or even years , will sometimes elapse between the first bending of the pavement and the time of its reaching the roof . Where the movement has been most rapid , the curvature of the beds is most regular , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ signs of displacement or violence are greatest in those creeps which have required months or years for their entire accomplishment . Hence we may conclude that similar changes may have been wrought on a larger scale in the earth 's crust by partial and gradual subsidences , especially where the ground has been undermined throughout long periods of time ; and we must be on our guard against inferring sudden violence , simply because the distortion of the beds is excessive . Engineers are familiar with the fact that when they raise the level of a railway by heaping stone or gravel on a foundation of marsh , quicksand , or other yielding formation , the new mound often sinks for a time as fast as they attempt to elevate it ; when they have persevered so as to overcome this difficulty , they frequently find that some of the adjoining flexible ground has risen up in one or more parallel arches or folds , showing that the vertical pressure of the sinking materials has given rise to a lateral folding movement . In like manner , in the interior of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crust may sometimes , as before mentioned , be made to expand by heat , or may be pressed by the force of steam against flexible strata loaded with a great weight of incumbent rocks . In this case the yielding mass , squeezed , but unable to overcome the resistance which it meets with in a vertical direction , may be gradually relieved by lateral folding . DIP AND STRIKE . ( FIGURE 60 . Series of inclined strata dipping to the north at an angle of 45 degrees . ) In describing the manner in which strata depart from their original horizontality , some technical terms , such as " dip " and " strike , " " anticlinal " and " synclinal " line or axis , are used by geologists . I shall now proceed to explain some of these to the student . If a stratum or bed of rock , instead of being quite level , be inclined to one side , it is said to DIP ; the point of the compass to which it is inclined is called the POINT OF DIP , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ line is called THE AMOUNT OF DIP , or THE ANGLE OF DIP . Thus , in the diagram ( Figure 60 ) , a series of strata are inclined , and they dip to the north at an angle of forty-five degrees . The STRIKE , or LINE OF BEARING , is the prolongation or extension of the strata in a direction AT RIGHT ANGLES to the dip ; and hence it is sometimes called the DIRECTION of the strata . Thus , in the above instance of strata dipping to the north , their strike must necessarily be east and west . We have borrowed the word from the German geologists , streichen signifying to extend , to have a certain direction . Dip and strike may be aptly illustrated by a row of houses running east and west , the long ridge of the roof representing the strike of the stratum of slates , which dip on one side to the north , and on the other to the south . A stratum which is horizontal , or quite level in all directions , has neither dip nor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who is endeavouring to comprehend the structure of a country , to learn how the beds dip in every part of the district ; but it requires some practice to avoid being occasionally deceived , both as to the point of dip and the amount of it . ( FIGURE 61 . Apparent horizontality of inclined strata . ) If the upper surface of a hard stony stratum be uncovered , whether artificially in a quarry , or by waves at the foot of a cliff , it is easy to determine towards what point of the compass the slope is steepest , or in what direction water would flow if poured upon it . This is the true dip . But the edges of highly inclined strata may give rise to perfectly horizontal lines in the face of a vertical cliff , if the observer see the strata in the line of the strike , the dip being inward from the face of the cliff . If , however , we come to a break in the cliff , which exhibits a section exactly at right angles to the line @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the true dip . In the drawing ( Figure 61 ) , we may suppose a headland , one side of which faces to the north , where the beds would appear perfectly horizontal to a person in the boat ; while in the other side facing the west , the true dip would be seen by the person on shore to be at an angle of 40 degrees . If , therefore , our observations are confined to a vertical precipice facing in one direction , we must endeavour to find a ledge or portion of the plane of one of the beds projecting beyond the others , in order to ascertain the true dip . ( FIGURE 62 . Two hands used to determine the inclination of strata . ) If not provided with a clinometer , a most useful instrument , when it is of consequence to determine with precision the inclination of the strata , the observer may measure the angle within a few degrees by standing exactly opposite to a cliff where the true dip is exhibited , holding the hands immediately before the eyes , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and of the other in a horizontal position , as in Figure 62 . It is thus easy to discover whether the lines of the inclined beds bisect the angle of 90 degrees , formed by the meeting of the hands , so as to give an angle of 45 degrees , or whether it would divide the space into two equal or unequal portions . You have only to change hands to get the line of dip on the upper side of the horizontal hand . ( FIGURE 63 . Section illustrating the structure of the Swiss Jura . ) It has been already seen , in describing the curved strata on the east coast of Scotland , in Forfarshire and Berwickshire , that a series of concave and convex bendings are occasionally repeated several times . These usually form part of a series of parallel waves of strata , which are prolonged in the same direction , throughout a considerable extent of country . Thus , for example , in the Swiss Jura , that lofty chain of mountains has been proved to consist of many parallel ridges , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ridges being formed by curved fossiliferous strata , of which the nature and dip are occasionally displayed in deep transverse gorges , called " cluses , " caused by fractures at right angles to the direction of the chain . ( Thurmann " Essai sur les Soulevemens Jurassiques de Porrentruy " Paris 1832 . ) Now let us suppose these ridges and parallel valleys to run north and south , we should then say that the STRIKE of the beds is north and south , and the DIP east and west . Lines drawn along the summits of the ridges , A , B , would be anticlinal lines , and one following the bottom of the adjoining valleys a synclinal line . OUTCROP OF STRATA . ( FIGURE 64 . Ground-plan of the denuded ridge C , Figure 63 . ) ( FIGURE 65 . Transverse section of the denuded ridge C , Figure 63 .. ) It will be observed that some of these ridges , A , B , are unbroken on the summit , whereas one of them , C , has been fractured along the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ away by denudation , so that the ridges of the beds in the formations a , b , c come out to the day , or , as the miners say , CROP OUT , on the sides of a valley . The ground-plan of such a denuded ridge as C , as given in a geological map , may be expressed by the diagram , Figure 64 , and the cross-section of the same by Figure 65 . The line D E , Figure 64 , is the anticlinal line , on each side of which the dip is in opposite directions , as expressed by the arrows . The emergence of strata at the surface is called by miners their OUTCROP , or BASSET . If , instead of being folded into parallel ridges , the beds form a boss or dome-shaped protuberance , and if we suppose the summit of the dome carried off , the ground-plan would exhibit the edges of the strata forming a succession of circles , or ellipses , round a common centre . These circles are the lines of strike , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ course of the circuit to every point of the compass , constituting what is termed a qua-quaversal dip  --  that is , turning every way . There are endless variations in the figures described by the basset-edges of the strata , according to the different inclination of the beds , and the mode in which they happen to have been denuded . One of the simplest rules , with which every geologist should be acquainted , relates to the V-like form of the beds as they crop out in an ordinary valley . First , if the strata be horizontal , the V-like form will be also on a level , and the newest strata will appear at the greatest heights . ( FIGURE 66 . Slope of valley 40 degrees , dip of strata 20 degrees . ) Secondly , if the beds be inclined and intersected by a valley sloping in the same direction , and the dip of the beds be less steep than the slope of the valley , then the V 's , as they are often termed by miners , will point upward ( see @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appearing in a superior position , and extending highest up the valley , as A is seen above B. ( FIGURE 67 . Slope of valley 20 degrees , dip of strata 50 degrees . ) Thirdly , if the dip of the beds be steeper than the slope of the valley , then the V 's will point downward ( see Figure 67 ) , and those formed of the older beds will now appear uppermost , as B appears above A. ( FIGURE 68 . Slope of valley 20 degrees , dip of strata 20 degrees , in opposite directions . ) Fourthly , in every case where the strata dip in a contrary direction to the slope of the valley , whatever be the angle of inclination , the newer beds will appear the highest , as in the first and second cases . This is shown by the drawing ( Figure 68 ) , which exhibits strata rising at an angle of 20 degrees , and crossed by a valley , which declines in an opposite direction at 20 degrees . These rules may often be of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ occurring in the two cases represented in Figures 66 and 67 may occasionally be encountered in following the same line of flexure at points a few miles distant from each other . A miner unacquainted with the rule , who had first explored the valley Figure 66 , may have sunk a vertical shaft below the coal-seam A , until he reached the inferior bed , B. He might then pass to the valley , Figure 67 , and discovering there also the outcrop of two coal-seams , might begin his workings in the uppermost in the expectation of coming down to the other bed A , which would be observed cropping out lower down the valley . But a glance at the section will demonstrate the futility of such hopes . ( I am indebted to the kindness of T. Sopwith , Esq. , for three models which I have copied in the above diagrams ; but the beginner may find it by no means easy to understand such copies , although , if he were to examine and handle the originals , turning them about in different ways , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the import of others far more complicated , which the same engineer has constructed to illustrate FAULTS . ) SYNCLINAL STRATA FORMING RIDGES . ( FIGURE 69 . Section of carboniferous rocks of Lancashire . ( E. Hull . ( Edward Hull , Quarterly Geological Journal volume 24 page 324. 1868. ) ) a . Synclinal . Grits and shales. c . Anticlinal . Mountain limestone . b . Synclinal . Grits and shales . ) Although in many cases an anticlinal axis forms a ridge , and a synclinal axis a valley , as in A B , Figure 63 , yet this can by no means be laid down as a general rule , as the beds very often slope inward from either side of a mountain , as at a , b , Figure 69 , while in the intervening valley , c , they slope upward , forming an arch . It would be natural to expect the fracture of solid rocks to take place chiefly where the bending of the strata has been sharpest , and such rending may produce ravines giving access to running @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entire absence , however , of such cracks at points where the strain must have been greatest , as at a , Figure 63 , is often very remarkable , and not always easy of explanation . We must imagine that many strata of limestone , chert , and other rocks which are now brittle , were pliant when bent into their present position . They may have owed their flexibility in part to the fluid matter which they contained in their minute pores , as before described , and in part to the permeation of sea-water while they were yet submerged . ( FIGURE 70 . Strata of chert , grit , and marl , near St. Jean de Luz . ) At the western extremity of the Pyrenees , great curvatures of the strata are seen in the sea-cliffs , where the rocks consist of marl , grit , and chert . At certain points , as at a , Figure 70 , some of the bendings of the flinty chert are so sharp that specimens might be broken off well fitted to serve as ridge-tiles on the roof @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been brittle as now , when first folded into this shape , it presents , nevertheless , here and there , at the points of greatest flexure , small cracks , which show that it was solid , and not wholly incapable of breaking at the period of its displacement . The numerous rents alluded to are not empty , but filled with chalcedony and quartz . ( FIGURE 71 . Bent and undulating gypseous marl . g . Gypsum. m . Marl . ) Between San Caterina and Castrogiovanni , in Sicily , bent and undulating gypseous marls occur , with here and there thin beds of solid gypsum interstratified . Sometimes these solid layers have been broken into detached fragments , still preserving their sharp edges ( g , g , Figure 71 ) , while the continuity of the more pliable and ductile marls , m , m , has not been interrupted . ( FIGURE 72 . Folded strata . ) ( FIGURE 73 . Folded strata . ) We have already explained , Figure 69 , that stratified rocks have usually their strata bent into parallel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ several of these folds having often been subjected to a common movement , and having acquired a uniform strike or direction . In some disturbed regions these folds have been doubled back upon themselves in such a manner that it is often difficult for an experienced geologist to determine correctly the relative age of the beds by superposition . Thus , if we meet with the strata seen in the section , Figure 72 , we should naturally suppose that there were twelve distinct beds , or sets of beds , No. 1 being the newest , and No. 12 the oldest of the series . But this section may perhaps exhibit merely six beds , which have been folded in the manner seen in Figure 73 , so that each of them is twice repeated , the position of one half being reversed , and part of No. 1 , originally the uppermost , having now become the lowest of the series . These phenomena are observable on a magnificent scale in certain regions in Switzerland , in precipices often more than 2000 feet in perpendicular height , and there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The upper part of the curves seen in this diagram , Figure 73 , and expressed in fainter lines , has been removed by what is called denudation , to be afterwards explained . FRACTURES OF THE STRATA AND FAULTS . Numerous rents may often be seen in rocks which appear to have been simply broken , the fractured parts still remaining in contact ; but we often find a fissure , several inches or yards wide , intervening between the disunited portions . These fissures are usually filled with fine earth and sand , or with angular fragments of stone , evidently derived from the fracture of the contiguous rocks . The face of each wall of the fissure is often beautifully polished , as if glazed , striated , or scored with parallel furrows and ridges , such as would be produced by the continued rubbing together of surfaces of unequal hardness . These polished surfaces are called by miners " slickensides . " It is supposed that the lines of the striae indicate the direction in which the rocks were moved . During one of the minor earthquakes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a building were rent vertically in several places , and made to vibrate for several minutes during each shock , after which they remained uninjured , and without any opening , although the line of each crack was still visible . When all movement had ceased , there were seen on the floor of the house , at the bottom of each rent , small heaps of fine brick-dust , evidently produced by trituration . ( FIGURE 74 . Faults . A B perpendicular , C D oblique to the horizon . ) ( FIGURE 75 . E F , fault or fissure filled with rubbish , on each side of which the shifted strata are not parallel . ) It is not uncommon to find the mass of rock on one side of a fissure thrown up above or down below the mass with which it was once in contact on the other side . " This mode of displacement is called a fault , shift , slip , or throw . " " The miner , " says Playfair , describing a fault , " is often perplexed , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strata , which changes at once all those lines and bearings which had hitherto directed his course . When his mine reaches a certain plane , which is sometimes perpendicular , as in A B , Figure 74 , sometimes oblique to the horizon ( as in C D , ibid. ) , he finds the beds of rock broken asunder , those on the one side of the plane having changed their place , by sliding in a particular direction along the face of the others . In this motion they have sometimes preserved their parallelism , as in Figure 74 , so that the strata on each side of faults A B , C D , continue parallel to one another ; in other cases , the strata on each side are inclined , as in a , b , c , d ( Figure 75 ) , though their identity is still to be recognised by their possessing the same thickness and the same internal characters . " ( Playfair , Illustration of Hutt . Theory paragraph 42 . ) In Coalbrook Dale , says Mr. Prestwich ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deposits of sandstone , shale , and coal , several thousand feet thick , and occupying an area of many miles , have been shivered into fragments , and the broken remnants have been placed in very discordant positions , often at levels differing several hundred feet from each other . The sides of the faults , when perpendicular , are commonly several yards apart , and are sometimes as much as 50 yards asunder , the interval being filled with broken debris of the strata . In following the course of the same fault it is sometimes found to produce in different places very unequal changes of level , the amount of shift being in one place 300 , and in another 700 feet , which arises from the union of two or more faults . In other words , the disjointed strata have in certain districts been subjected to renewed movements , which they have not suffered elsewhere . We may occasionally see exact counterparts of these slips , on a small scale , in pits of loose sand and gravel , many of which have doubtless been caused @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , slight subsidences having taken place from failure of support . Sometimes , however , even these small slips may have been produced during earthquakes ; for land has been moved , and its level , relatively to the sea , considerably altered , within the period when much of the alluvial sand and gravel now covering the surface of continents was deposited . I have already stated that a geologist must be on his guard , in a region of disturbed strata , against inferring repeated alternations of rocks , when , in fact , the same strata , once continuous , have been bent round so as to recur in the same section , and with the same dip . A similar mistake has often been occasioned by a series of faults . ( FIGURE 76 . Apparent alternations of strata caused by vertical faults . ) If , for example , the dark line A H ( Figure 76 ) represent the surface of a country on which the strata a , b , c frequently crop out , an observer who is proceeding from H to A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ approaching new strata , whereas the repetition of the same beds has been caused by vertical faults , or downthrows . Thus , suppose the original mass , A , B , C , D , to have been a set of uniformly inclined strata , and that the different masses under E F , F G , and G D sank down successively , so as to leave vacant the spaces marked in the diagram by dotted lines , and to occupy those marked by the continuous lines , then let denudation take place along the line A H , so that the protruding masses indicated by the fainter lines are swept away  --  a miner , who has not discovered the faults , finding the mass a , which we will suppose to be a bed of coal four times repeated , might hope to find four beds , workable to an indefinite depth , but first , on arriving at the fault G , he is stopped suddenly in his workings , for he comes partly upon the shale b , and partly on the sandstone c ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and on reaching E he is again stopped by a wall composed of the rock d . The very different levels at which the separated parts of the same strata are found on the different sides of the fissure , in some faults , is truly astonishing . One of the most celebrated in England is that called the " ninety-fathom dike , " in the coal-field of Newcastle . This name has been given to it , because the same beds are ninety fathoms ( 540 feet ) lower on the northern than they are on the southern side . The fissure has been filled by a body of sand , which is now in the state of sandstone , and is called the dike , which is sometimes very narrow , but in other places more than twenty yards wide . ( Conybeare and Phillips Outlines , etc. page 376 . ) The walls of the fissure are scored by grooves , such as would have been produced if the broken ends of the rock had been rubbed along the plane of the fault . ( Phillips Geology Lardner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Craven faults , in the north of England , the vertical displacement is still greater , and the fracture has extended in a horizontal direction for a distance of thirty miles or more . GREAT FAULTS THE RESULT OF REPEATED MOVEMENTS . It must not , however , be supposed that faults generally consist of single linear rents ; there are usually a number of faults springing off from the main one , and sometimes a long strip of country seems broken up into fragments by sets of parallel and connecting transverse faults . Oftentimes a great line of fault has been repeated , or the movements have been continued through successive periods , so that , newer deposits having covered the old line of displacement , the strata both newer and older have given way along the old line of fracture . Some geologists have considered it necessary to imagine that the upward or downward movement in these cases was accomplished at a single stroke , and not by a series of sudden but interrupted movements . They appear to have derived this idea from a notion that the grooved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is far from being a constant phenomenon . Not only are some sets of striae not parallel to others , but the clay and rubbish between the walls , when squeezed or rubbed , have been streaked in different directions , the grooves which the harder minerals have impressed on the softer being frequently curved and irregular . ( FIGURE 77 . Faults and denuded coal-strata , Ashby de la Zouch . ( Mammatt . ) ) The usual absence of protruding masses of rock forming precipices or ridges along the lines of great faults has already been alluded to in explaining Figure 76 , and the same remarkable fact is well exemplified in every coal-field which has been extensively worked . It is in such districts that the former relation of the beds which have been shifted is determinable with great accuracy . Thus in the coal-field of Ashby de la Zouch , in Leicestershire ( see Figure 77 ) , a fault occurs , on one side of which the coal-beds a , b , c , d must once have risen to the height of 500 feet above @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ uplifted strata do not stand up 500 feet above the general surface ; on the contrary , the outline of the country , as expressed by the line z z , is uniformly undulating , without any break , and the mass indicated by the dotted outline must have been washed away . ( See Mammatt 's Geological Facts etc. page 90 and plate . ) The student may refer to Mr. Hull 's measurement of faults , observed in the Lancashire coal-field , where the vertical displacement has amounted to thousands of feet , and yet where all the superficial inequalities which must have resulted from such movements have been obliterated by subsequent denudation . In the same memoir proofs are afforded of there having been two periods of vertical movement in the same fault  --  one , for example , before , and another after , the Triassic epoch . ( Hull Quarterly Geological Journal volume 24 page 318. 1868 . ) The shifting of the beds by faults is often intimately connected with those same foldings which constitute the anticlinal and synclinal axes before alluded to , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forms of disturbance are to a great extent the same . A fault in Virginia , believed to imply a displacement of several thousand feet , has been traced for more than eighty miles in the same direction as the foldings of the Appalachian chain . ( H.D. Rogers Geology of Pennsylvania page 897 . ) An hypothesis which attributes such a change of position to a succession of movements , is far preferable to any theory which assumes each fault to have been accomplished by a single upcast or downthrow of several thousand feet . For we know that there are operations now in progress , at great depths in the interior of the earth , by which both large and small tracts of ground are made to rise above and sink below their former level , some slowly and insensibly , others suddenly and by starts , a few feet or yards at a time ; whereas there are no grounds for believing that , during the last 3000 years at least , any regions have been either upheaved or depressed , at a single stroke , to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is certainly not easy to understand how in the subterranean regions one mass of solid rock should have been folded up by a continued series of movements , while another mass in contact , or only separated by a line of fissure , has remained stationary or has perhaps subsided . But every volcano , by the intermittent action of the steam , gases , and lava evolved during an eruption , helps us to form some idea of the manner in which such operations take place . For eruptions are repeated at uncertain intervals throughout the whole or a large part of a geological period , some of the surrounding and contiguous districts remaining quite undisturbed . And in most of the instances with which we are best acquainted the emission of lava , scoria , and steam is accompanied by the uplifting of the solid crust . Thus in Vesuvius , Etna , the Madeiras , the Canary Islands , and the Azores there is evidence of marine deposits of recent and tertiary date having been elevated to the height of a thousand feet , and sometimes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There is , moreover , a general tendency in contemporaneous volcanic vents to affect a linear arrangement , extending in some instances , as in the Andes or the Indian Archipelago , to distances equalling half the circumference of the globe . Where volcanic heat , therefore , operates at such a depth as not to obtain vent at the surface , in the form of an eruption , it may nevertheless be conceived to give rise to upheavals , foldings , and faults in certain linear tracts . And marine denudation , to be treated of in the next chapter , will help us to understand why that which should be the protruding portion of the faulted rocks is missing at the surface . ARRANGEMENT AND DIRECTION OF PARALLEL FOLDS OF STRATA . The possible causes of the folding of strata by lateral movements have been considered in a former part of this chapter . No European chain of mountains affords so remarkable an illustration of the persistency of such flexures for a great distance as the Appalachians before alluded to , and none has been studied and described by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from north to south , or rather N.N.E. to S.S.W. , for nearly 1500 miles , with a breadth of 50 miles , throughout which the Palaeozoic strata have been so bent as to form a series of parallel anticlinal and synclinal ridges and troughs , comprising usually three or four principal and many smaller plications , some of them forming broad and gentle arches , others narrower and steeper ones , while some , where the bending has been greatest , have the position of their beds inverted , as before shown in Figure 73 . The strike of the parallel ridges , after continuing in a straight line for many hundred miles , is then found to vary for a more limited distance as much as 30 degrees , the folds wheeling round together in the new direction and continuing to be parallel , as if they had all obeyed the same movement . The date of the movements by which the great flexures were brought about must , of course , be subsequent to the formation of the uppermost part of the coal or the newest of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Triassic strata were deposited on the denuded edges of the folded beds . The manner in which the numerous parallel folds , all simultaneously formed , assume a new direction common to the whole of them , and sometimes varying at an angle of 30 degrees from the normal strike of the chain , shows what deviation from an otherwise uniform strike of the beds may be experienced when the geographical area through which they are traced is on so vast a scale . The disturbances in the case here adverted to occurred between the Carboniferous period and that of the Trias , and this interval is so vast that they may have occupied a great lapse of time , during which their parallelism was always preserved . But , as a rule , wherever after a long geological interval the recurrence of lateral movements gives rise to a new set of folds , the strike of these last is different . Thus , for example , Mr. Hull has pointed out that three principal lines of disturbance , all later than the Carboniferous period , have affected the stratified @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an E.N.E. direction , took place at the close of the Carboniferous period . The next , running north and south , at the close of the Permian , and the third , having a N.N.W. direction , at the close of the Jurassic period . ( Edward Hull Quarterly Geological Journal volume 24 page 323 . ) UNCONFORMABILITY OF STRATA . ( FIGURE 78 . Unconformable junction of old red sandstone and Silurian schist at the Siccar Point , near St. Abb 's Head , Berwickshire . ) Strata are said to be unconformable when one series is so placed over another that the planes of the superior repose on the edges of the inferior ( see Figure 78 . ) In this case it is evident that a period had elapsed between the production of the two sets of strata , and that , during this interval , the older series had been tilted and disturbed . Afterwards the upper series was thrown down in horizontal strata upon it . If these superior beds , d d Figure 78 , are also inclined , it is plain that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first , before the deposition of the newer beds , d d , and a second time when these same strata were upraised out of the sea , and thrown slightly out of the horizontal position . ( FIGURE 79 . Junction of unconformable strata near Mons , in Belgium . ) It often happens that in the interval between the deposition of two sets of unconformable strata , the inferior rock has not only been denuded , but drilled by perforating shells . Thus , for example , at Autreppe and Gusigny , near Mons , beds of an ancient ( primary or palaeozoic ) limestone , highly inclined , and often bent , are covered with horizontal strata of greenish and whitish marls of the Cretaceous formation . The lowest , and therefore the oldest , bed of the horizontal series is usually the sand and conglomerate , a , in which are rounded fragments of stone , from an inch to two feet in diameter . These fragments have often adhering shells attached to them , and have been bored by perforating mollusca . The solid surface of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to exhibit cylindrical and pear-shaped cavities , as at c , the work of saxicavous mollusca ; and many rents , as at b , which descend several feet or yards into the limestone , have been filled with sand and shells , similar to those in the stratum a . OVERLAPPING STRATA . Strata are said to overlap when an upper bed extends beyond the limits of a lower one . This may be produced in various ways ; as , for example , when alterations of physical geography cause the arms of a river or channels of discharge to vary , so that sediment brought down is deposited over a wider area than before , or when the sea-bottom has been raised up and again depressed without disturbing the horizontal position of the strata . In this case the newer strata may rest for the most part conformably on the older , but , extending farther , pass over their edges . Every intermediate state between unconformable and over-lapping beds may occur , because there may be every gradation between a slight derangement of position , and a considerable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beds come on . CHAPTER VI . DENUDATION . Denudation defined . Its Amount more than equal to the entire Mass of Stratified Deposits in the Earth 's Crust . Subaerial Denudation . Action of the Wind . Action of Running Water . Alluvium defined . Different Ages of Alluvium . Denuding Power of Rivers affected by Rise or Fall of Land . Littoral Denudation . Inland Sea-Cliffs . Escarpments . Submarine Denudation . Dogger-bank . Newfoundland Bank . Denuding Power of the Ocean during Emergence of Land . Denudation , which has been occasionally spoken of in the preceding chapters , is the removal of solid matter by water in motion , whether of rivers or of the waves and currents of the sea , and the consequent laying bare of some inferior rock . This operation has exerted an influence on the structure of the earth 's crust as universal and important as sedimentary deposition itself ; for denudation is the necessary antecedent of the production of all new strata of mechanical origin . The formation of every new deposit by the transport of sediment and pebbles necessarily implies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ down of rock into rounded fragments , sand , or mud , equal in quantity to the new strata . All deposition , therefore , except in the case of a shower of volcanic ashes , and the outflow of lava , and the growth of certain organic formations , is the sign of superficial waste going on contemporaneously , and to an equal amount , elsewhere . The gain at one point is no more than sufficient to balance the loss at some other . Here a lake has grown shallower , there a ravine has been deepened . Here the depth of the sea has been augmented by the removal of a sandbank during a storm , there its bottom has been raised and shallowed by the accumulation in its bed of the same sand transported from the bank . When we see a stone building , we know that somewhere , far or near , a quarry has been opened . The courses of stone in the building may be compared to successive strata , the quarry to a ravine or valley which has suffered denudation . As @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been laid one upon another gradually , so the excavation both of the valley and quarry have been gradual . To pursue the comparison still farther , the superficial heaps of mud , sand , and gravel , usually called alluvium , may be likened to the rubbish of a quarry which has been rejected as useless by the workmen , or has fallen upon the road between the quarry and the building , so as to lie scattered at random over the ground . But we occasionally find in a conglomerate large rounded pebbles of an older conglomerate , which had previously been derived from a variety of different rocks . In such cases we are reminded that , the same materials having been used over and over again , it is not enough to affirm that the entire mass of stratified deposits in the earth 's crust affords a monument and measure of the denudation which has taken place , for in truth the quantity of matter now extant in the form of stratified rock represents but a fraction of the material removed by water and redeposited in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into subaerial , or the action of wind , rain , and rivers ; and submarine , or that effected by the waves of the sea , and its tides and currents . With the operation of the first of these we are best acquainted , and it may be well to give it our first attention . ACTION OF THE WIND . In desert regions where no rain falls , or where , as in parts of the Sahara , the soil is so salt as to be without any covering of vegetation , clouds of dust and sand attest the power of the wind to cause the shifting of the unconsolidated or disintegrated rock . In examining volcanic countries I have been much struck with the great superficial changes brought about by this power in the course of centuries . The highest peak of Madeira is about 6050 feet above the sea , and consists of the skeleton of a volcanic cone now 250 feet high , the beds of which once dipped from a centre in all directions at an angle of more than 30 degrees . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ olivine , fifteen feet wide , apparently the remains of a column of lava which once rose to the crater . Nearly all the scoriae of the upper part of the cone have been swept away , those portions only remaining which were hardened by the contact or proximity of the dike . While I was myself on this peak on January 25 , 1854 , I saw the wind , though it was not stormy weather , removing sand and dust derived from the decomposing scoriae . There had been frost in the night , and some ice was still seen in the crevices of the rock . On the highest platform of the Grand Canary , at an elevation of 6000 feet , there is a cylindrical column of hard lava , from which the softer matter has been carried away ; and other similar remnants of the dikes of cones of eruption attest the denuding power of the wind at points where running water could never have exerted any influence . The waste effected by wind aided by frost and snow , may not be trifling , even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may become indefinitely great . ACTION OF RUNNING WATER . ( FIGURE 80 . Section through several eroded formations. a . Older alluvium or drift . b . Modern alluvium . ) There are different classes of phenomena which attest in a most striking manner the vast spaces left vacant by the erosive power of water . I may allude , first , to those valleys on both sides of which the same strata are seen following each other in the same order , and having the same mineral composition and fossil contents . We may observe , for example , several formations , as Nos. 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , in the diagram ( Figure 80 ) : No. 1 , conglomerate , No. 2 , clay , No. 3 , grit , and No. 4 , limestone , each repeated in a series of hills separated by valleys varying in depth . When we examine the subordinate parts of these four formations , we find , in like manner , distinct beds in each , corresponding , on the opposite sides of the valleys , both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doubt that the strata were originally continuous , and that some cause has swept away the portions which once connected the whole series . A torrent on the side of a mountain produces similar interruptions ; and when we make artificial cuts in lowering roads , we expose , in like manner , corresponding beds on either side . But in nature , these appearances occur in mountains several thousand feet high , and separated by intervals of many miles or leagues in extent . In the " Memoirs of the Geological Survey of Great Britain " ( volume 1 ) , Professor Ramsay has shown that the missing beds , removed from the summit of the Mendips , must have been nearly a mile in thickness ; and he has pointed out considerable areas in South Wales and some of the adjacent counties of England , where a series of primary ( or palaeozoic ) strata , no less than 11,000 feet in thickness , have been stripped off . All these materials have of course been transported to new regions , and have entered into the composition of more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shown by observations in the same " Survey , " that the Palaeozoic strata are from 20,000 to 30,000 feet thick . It is clear that such rocks , formed of mud and sand , now for the most part consolidated , are the monuments of denuding operations , which took place on a grand scale at a very remote period in the earth 's history . For , whatever has been given to one area must always have been borrowed from another ; a truth which , obvious as it may seem when thus stated , must be repeatedly impressed on the student 's mind , because in many geological speculations it is taken for granted that the external crust of the earth has been always growing thicker in consequence of the accumulation , period after period , of sedimentary matter , as if the new strata were not always produced at the expense of pre-existing rocks , stratified or unstratified . By duly reflecting on the fact that all deposits of mechanical origin imply the transportation from some other region , whether contiguous or remote , of an equal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exterior of the planet must always have grown thinner in one place , whenever , by accessions of new strata , it was acquiring thickness in another . It is well known that generally at the mouths of large rivers , deltas are forming and the land is encroaching upon the sea ; these deltas are monuments of recent denudation and deposition ; and it is obvious that if the mud , sand , and gravel were taken from them and restored to the continents they would fill up a large part of the gullies and valleys which are due to the excavating and transporting power of torrents and rivers . ALLUVIUM . Between the superficial covering of vegetable mould and the subjacent rock there usually intervenes in every district a deposit of loose gravel , sand , and mud , to which when it occurs in valleys the name of alluvium has been popularly applied . The term is derived from alluvio , an inundation , or alluo , to wash , because the pebbles and sand commonly resemble those of a river 's bed or the mud and gravel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ course of those changes in physical geography which may take place during the gradual emergence of the bottom of the sea and its conversion into dry land , any spot may either have been a sunken reef , or a bay , or estuary , or sea-shore , or the bed of a river . The drainage , moreover , may have been deranged again and again by earthquakes , during which temporary lakes are caused by landslips , and partial deluges occasioned by the bursting of the barriers of such lakes . For this reason it would be unreasonable to hope that we should ever be able to account for all the alluvial phenomena of each particular country , seeing that the causes of their origin are so various . Besides , the last operations of water have a tendency to disturb and confound together all pre-existing alluviums . Hence we are always in danger of regarding as the work of a single era , and the effect of one cause , what has in reality been the result of a variety of distinct agents , during a long succession @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gained from the exploration of a country like Auvergne , where the superficial gravel of very different eras happens to have been preserved and kept separate by sheets of lava , which were poured out one after the other at periods when the denudation , and probably the upheaval , of rocks were in progress . That region had already acquired in some degree its present configuration before any volcanoes were in activity , and before any igneous matter was superimposed upon the granitic and fossiliferous formations . The pebbles therefore in the older gravels are exclusively constituted of granite and other aboriginal rocks ; and afterwards , when volcanic vents burst forth into eruption , those earlier alluviums were covered by streams of lava , which protected them from intermixture with gravel of subsequent date . In the course of ages , a new system of valleys was excavated , so that the rivers ran at lower levels than those at which the first alluviums and sheets of lava were formed . When , therefore , fresh eruptions gave rise to new lava , the melted matter was poured out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ differed from the first or upland alluvium , by containing in it rounded fragments of various volcanic rocks , and often fossil bones belonging to species of land animals different from those which had previously flourished in the same country and been buried in older gravels . ( FIGURE 81 . Lavas of Auvergne resting on alluviums of different ages . ) Figure 81 will explain the different heights at which beds of lava and gravel , each distinct from the other in composition and age , are observed , some on the flat tops of hills , 700 or 800 feet high , others on the slope of the same hills , and the newest of all in the channel of the existing river where there is usually gravel alone , although in some cases a narrow strip of solid lava shares the bottom of the valley with the river . The proportion of extinct species of quadrupeds is more numerous in the fossil remains of the gravel No. 1 than in that indicated as No. 2 ; and in No. 3 they agree more closely , sometimes entirely , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or rarity of organic remains in beds of loose gravel and sand is partly owing to the friction which originally ground down the rocks into small fragments , and partly to the porous nature of alluvium , which allows the free percolation through it of rain-water , and promotes the decomposition and removal of fossil remains . The loose transported matter on the surface of a large part of the land now existing in the temperate and arctic regions of the northern hemisphere , must be regarded as being in a somewhat exceptional state , in consequence of the important part which ice has played in comparatively modern geological times . This subject will be more specially alluded to when we describe , in the eleventh chapter , the deposits called " glacial . " DENUDING POWER OF RIVERS AFFECTED BY RISE OR FALL OF LAND . It has long been a matter of common observation that most rivers are now cutting their channels through alluvial deposits of greater depth and extent than could ever have been formed by the present streams . From this fact it has been inferred that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ liable to be flooded than formerly . It may be true that in the history of almost every country the rivers have been both larger and smaller than they are at the present moment . For the rainfall in particular regions varies according to climate and physical geography , and is especially governed by the elevation of the land above the sea , or its distance from it and other conditions equally fluctuating in the course of time . But the phenomenon alluded to may sometimes be accounted for by oscillations in the level of the land , experienced since the existing valleys originated , even where no marked diminution in the quantity of rain and in the size of the rivers has occurred . We know that many large areas of land are rising and others sinking , and unless it could be assumed that both the upward and downward movements are everywhere uniform , many of the existing hydrographical basins ought to have the appearance of having been temporary lakes first filled with fluviatile strata and then partially re-excavated . Suppose , for example , part of a continent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Mississippi , to subside several inches or feet in a century , as the west coast of Greenland , extending 600 miles north and south , has been sinking for three or four centuries , between the latitudes 60 and 69 degrees N. ( Principles of Geology 7th edition page 506 ; 10th edition volume 2 page 196 . ) It will rarely happen that the rate of subsidence will be everywhere equal , and in many cases the amount of depression in the interior will regularly exceed that of the region nearer the sea . Whenever this happens , the fall of the waters flowing from the upland country will be diminished , and each tributary stream will have less power to carry its sand and sediment into the main river , and the main river less power to convey its annual burden of transported matter to the sea . All the rivers , therefore , will proceed to fill up partially their ancient channels , and , during frequent inundations , will raise their alluvial plains by new deposits . If then the same area of land @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and consequently the velocity , of every river will begin to augment . Each of them will be less given to overflow its alluvial plain ; and their power of carrying earthy matter seaward , and of scouring out and deepening their channels , will be sustained till , after a lapse of many thousand years , each of them has eroded a new channel or valley through a fluviatile formation of comparatively modern date . The surface of what was once the river-plain at the period of greatest depression , will then remain fringing the valley-sides in the form of a terrace apparently flat , but in reality sloping down with the general inclination of the river . Everywhere this terrace will present cliffs of gravel and sand , facing the river . That such a series of movements has actually taken place in the main valley of the Mississippi and in its tributary valleys during oscillations of level , I have endeavoured to show in my description of that country ( Second Visit to the United States volume 1 chapter 34. ) ; and the fresh-water shells of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extinct races , preserved in the terraces of fluviatile origin , attest the exclusion of the sea during the whole process of filling up and partial re-excavation . LITTORAL DENUDATION . Part of the action of the waves between high and low watermark must be included in subaerial denudation , more especially as the undermining of cliffs by the waves is facilitated by land-springs , and these often lead to the sliding down of great masses of land into the sea . Along our coasts we find numerous submerged forests , only visible at low water , having the trunks of the trees erect and their roots attached to them and still spreading through the ancient soil as when they were living . They occur in too many places , and sometimes at too great a depth , to be explained by a mere change in the level of the tides , although as the coasts waste away and alter in shape , the height to which the tides rise and fall is always varying , and the level of high tide at any given point may , in the course @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fathoms . It is this fluctuation in the height of the tides , and the erosion and destruction of the sea-coast by the waves , that makes it exceedingly difficult for us in a few centuries , or even perhaps in a few thousand years , to determine whether there is a change by subterranean movement in the relative level of sea and land . We often behold , as on the coasts of Devonshire and Pembrokeshire , facts which appear to lead to opposite conclusions . In one place a raised beach with marine littoral shells , and in another immediately adjoining a submerged forest . These phenomena indicate oscillations of level , and as the movements are very gradual , they must give repeated opportunities to the breakers to denude the land which is thus again and again exposed to their fury , although it is evident that the submergence is sometimes effected in such a manner as to allow the trees which border the coast not to be carried away . INLAND SEA-CLIFFS . In countries where hard limestone rocks abound , inland cliffs have often retained faithfully @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the boundary of land and sea . Thus , in the Morea , no less than three or even four ranges of cliffs are well-preserved , rising one above the other at different distances from the actual shore , the summit of the highest and oldest occasionally attaining 1000 feet in elevation . A consolidated beach with marine shells is usually found at the base of each cliff , and a line of littoral caverns . These ranges of cliff probably imply pauses in the process of upheaval when the waves and currents had time to undermine and clear away considerable masses of rock . But the beginner should be warned not to expect to find evidence of the former sojourn of the sea on all those lands which we are nevertheless sure have been submerged at periods comparatively modern ; for notwithstanding the enduring nature of the marks left by littoral action on some rocks , especially limestones , we can by no means detect sea-beaches and inland cliffs everywhere . On the contrary , they are , upon the whole , extremely partial , and are often entirely wanting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must , nevertheless , have been upheaved at the same time , and by the same intermittent movements , as the adjoining harder rocks . ESCARPMENTS . Besides the inland cliffs above alluded to which mark the ancient limits of the sea , there are other abrupt terminations of rocks of various kinds which resemble sea-cliffs , but which have in reality been due to subaerial denudation . These have been called " escarpments , " a term which it is useful to confine to the outcrop of particular formations having a scarped outline , as distinct from cliffs due to marine action . I formerly supposed that the steep line of cliff-like slopes seen along the outcrop of the chalk , when we follow the edge of the North or South Downs , was due to marine action ; but Professor Ramsay has shown ( Physical Geography and Geology of Great Britain page 78 1864. ) that the present outline of the physical geography is more in favour of the idea of the escarpments having been due to gradual waste since the rocks were exposed in the atmosphere to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a good summary of the grounds for ascribing these apparent sea-cliffs to waste in the open air . 1 . There is an absence of all signs of ancient sea-beaches or littoral deposits at the base of the escarpment. 2 . Great inequality is observed in the level of the base line . 3 . The escarpments do not intersect , like sea-cliffs , a series of distinct rocks , but are always confined to the boundary-line of the same formation . 4 . There are sometimes different contiguous and parallel escarpments  --  those , for example , of the greensand and chalk  --  which are so near each other , and occasionally so similar in altitude , that we can not imagine any existing archipelago if converted into dry land to present a like outline . The above theory is by no means inconsistent with the opinion that the limits of the outcrop of the chalk and greensand which the escarpments now follow , were originally determined by marine denudation . When the south-east of England last emerged from beneath the level of the sea , it was acted upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and currents , and the chalk would form from the first a mass projecting above the more destructible clay called Gault . Still the present escarpments so much resembling sea-cliffs have no doubt , for reasons above stated , derived their most characteristic features subsequently to emergence from subaerial waste by rain and rivers . SUBMARINE DENUDATION . When we attempt to estimate the amount of submarine denudation , we become sensible of the disadvantage under which we labour from our habitual incapacity of observing the action of marine currents on the bed of the sea . We know that the agitation of the waves , even during storms , diminishes at a rapid rate , so as to become very insignificant at the depth of a few fathoms , and is quite imperceptible at the depth of about sixteen fathoms ; but when large bodies of water are transferred by a current from one part of the ocean to another , they are known to maintain at great depths such a velocity as must enable them to remove the finer , and sometimes even the coarser , materials of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more than 150 feet deep can keep open its channel and even carry down gravel and sand to its delta , the surface velocity being not more than two or three miles an hour , so a gigantic current , like the Gulf Stream , equal in volume to many hundred Mississippis , and having in parts a surface velocity of more than three miles , may act as a propelling and abrading power at still greater depths . But the efficacy of the sea as a denuding agent , geologically considered , is not dependent on the power of currents to preserve at great depths a velocity sufficient to remove sand and mud , because , even where the deposition or removal of sediment is not in progress , the depth of water does not remain constant throughout geological time . Every page of the geological record proves to us that the relative levels of land and sea , and the position of the ocean and of continents and islands , has been always varying , and we may feel sure that some portions of the submarine area are now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other currents and of the waves during storms is sufficient to prevent the emergence of many lands , even though they may be undergoing continual upheaval . It is not an uncommon error to imagine that the waste of sea-cliffs affords the measure of the amount of marine denudation of which it probably constitutes an insignificant portion . DOGGER-BANK . That great shoal called the Dogger-bank , about sixty miles east of the coast of Northumberland , and occupying an area about as large as Wales , has nowhere a depth of more than ninety feet , and in its shallower parts is less than forty feet under water . It might contribute towards the safety of the navigation of our seas to form an artificial island , and to erect a light-house on this bank ; but no engineer would be rash enough to attempt it , as he would feel sure that the ocean in the first heavy gale would sweep it away as readily as it does every temporary shoal that accumulates from time to time around a sunk vessel on the same bank . ( Principles 10th @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ changes in historical times entitle us to assume that where upheaval may be in progress it proceeds at a rapid rate . Three or four feet rather than as many yards in a century may probably be as much as we can reckon upon in our speculations ; and if such be the case , the continuance of the upward movement might easily be counteracted by the denuding force of such currents aided by such waves as , during a gale , are known to prevail in the German Ocean . What parts of the bed of the ocean are stationary at present , and what areas may be rising or sinking , is a matter of which we are very ignorant , as the taking of accurate soundings is but of recent date . NEWFOUNDLAND BANK . The great bank of Newfoundland may be compared in size to the whole of England . This part of the bottom of the Atlantic is surrounded on three sides by a rapidly deepening ocean , the bank itself being from twenty to fifty fathoms ( or from 120 to 300 feet ) under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of different charts made at distant periods , whether it is undergoing any change of level , but if it be gradually rising we can not anticipate on that account that it will become land , because the breakers in an open sea would exercise a prodigious force even on solid rock brought up to within a few yards of the surface . We know , for example , that when a new volcanic island rose in the Mediterranean in 1831 , the waves were capable in a few years of reducing it to a sunken rock . In the same way currents which flow over the Newfoundland bank a great part of the year at the rate of two miles an hour , and are known to retain a considerable velocity to near the bottom , may carry away all loose sand and mud , and make the emergence of the shoal impossible , in spite of the accessions of mud , sand , and boulders derived occasionally from melting icebergs which , coming from the northern glaciers , are frequently stranded on various parts of the bank . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the marine currents may be incapable of moving , but the same rocky fragments may be made to sink by the undermining of beds consisting of finer matter on which the blocks and gravel repose . In this way gravel and boulders may continue to overspread a submarine bottom after the latter has been lowered for hundreds of feet , the surface never having been able to emerge and become land . It is by no means improbable that the annual removal of an average thickness of half an inch of rock might counteract the ordinary upheaval which large submarine areas are undergoing ; and the real enigma which the geologist has to solve is not the extensive denudation of the white chalk or of our tertiary sands and clays , but the fact that such incoherent materials have ever succeeded in lifting up their heads above water in an open sea . Why were they not swept away during storms into some adjoining abysses , the highest parts of each shoal being always planed off down to the depth of a few fathoms ? The hardness and toughness of some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perhaps have assisted ; nor must we forget the protection afforded by a dense and unbroken covering of barnacles , limpets , and other creatures which flourish most between high and low water and shelter some newly risen coasts from the waves . CHAPTER VII . JOINT ACTION OF DENUDATION , UPHEAVAL , AND SUBSIDENCE IN REMODELLING THE EARTH 'S CRUST . How we obtain an Insight at the Surface , of the Arrangement of Rocks at great Depths . Why the Height of the successive Strata in a given Region is so disproportionate to their Thickness . Computation of the average annual Amount of subaerial Denudation . Antagonism of Volcanic Force to the Levelling Power of running Water . How far the Transfer of Sediment from the Land to a neighbouring Sea-bottom may affect Subterranean Movements . Permanence of Continental and Oceanic Areas . HOW WE OBTAIN AN INSIGHT AT THE SURFACE , OF THE ARRANGEMENT OF ROCKS AT GREAT DEPTHS . The reader has been already informed that , in the structure of the earth 's crust , we often find proofs of the direct superposition of marine to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deep-sea and shallow-water formations . In order to explain how such a series of rocks could be made to form our present continents and islands , we have not only to assume that there have been alternate upward and downward movements of great vertical extent , but that the upheaval in the areas which we at present inhabit has , in later geological times , sufficiently predominated over subsidence to cause these portions of the earth 's crust to be land instead of sea . The sinking down of a delta beneath the sea-level may cause strata of fluviatile or even terrestrial origin , such as peat with trees proper to marshes , to be covered by deposits of deep-sea origin . There is also no end to the thickness of mud and sand which may accumulate in shallow water , provided that fresh sediment is brought down from the wasting land at a rate corresponding to that of the sinking of the bed of the sea . The latter , again , may sometimes sink so fast that the earthy matter , being intercepted in some new landward depression , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ water becoming clear may favour the growth of shells and corals , and calcareous rocks of organic origin may thus be superimposed on mechanical deposits . The succession of strata here alluded to would be consistent with the occurrence of gradual downward and upward movements of the land and bed of the sea without any disturbance of the horizontality of the several formations . But the arrangement of rocks composing the earth 's crust differs materially from that which would result from a mere series of vertical movements . Had the volcanic forces been confined to such movements , and had the stratified rocks been first formed beneath the sea and then raised above it , without any lateral compression , the geologist would never have obtained an insight into the monuments of various ages , some of extremely remote antiquity . What we have said in Chapter 5 of dip and strike , of the folding and inversion of strata , of anticlinal and synclinal flexures , and in Chapter 6 of denudation at different periods , whether subaerial or submarine , must be understood before the student can comprehend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but which it is his business particularly to understand . I allude to the small height above the level of the sea attained by strata often many miles in thickness , and about the chronological succession of which , in one and the same region , there is no doubt whatever . Had stratified rocks in general remained horizontal , the waves of the sea would have been enabled during oscillations of level to plane off entirely the uppermost beds as they rose or sank during the emergence or submergence of the land . But the occurrence of a series of formations of widely different ages , all remaining horizontal and in conformable stratification , is exceptional , and for this reason the total annihilation of the uppermost strata has rarely taken place . We owe , indeed , to the side way movements of LATERAL COMPRESSION those anticlinal and synclinal curves of the beds already described ( Figure 55 Chapter 4 ) , which , together with denudation , subaerial and submarine , enable us to investigate the structure of the earth 's crust many miles below those points which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Figure 56 Chapter 4 , how , at St. Abb 's Head , a series of strata of indefinite thickness may become vertical , and then denuded , so that the edges of the beds alone shall be exposed to view , the altitude of the upheaved ridges being reduced to a moderate height above the sea-level ; and it may be observed that although the incumbent strata of Old Red Sandstone are in that place nearly horizontal , yet these same newer beds will in other places be found so folded as to present vertical strata , the edges of which are abruptly cut off , as in 2 , 3 , 4 on the right-hand side of the diagram , Figure 55 Chapter 4 . WHY THE HEIGHT OF THE SUCCESSIVE STRATA IN A GIVEN REGION IS SO DISPROPORTIONATE TO THEIR THICKNESS . We can not too distinctly bear in mind how dependent we are on the joint action of the volcanic and aqueous forces , the one in disturbing the original position of rocks , and the other in destroying large portions of them , for our power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ records of which the crust of the globe is composed . Why , it may be asked , if the ancient bed of the sea has been in many regions uplifted to the height of two or three miles , and sometimes twice that altitude , and if it can be proved that some single formations are of themselves two or three miles thick , do we so often find several important groups resting one upon the other , yet attaining only the height of a few hundred feet above the level of the sea ? The American geologists , after carefully studying the Allegheny or Appalachian mountains , have ascertained that the older fossiliferous rocks of that chain ( from the Silurian to the Carboniferous inclusive ) are not less than 42,000 feet thick , and if they were now superimposed on each other in the order in which they were thrown down , they ought to equal in height the Himalayas with the Alps piled upon them . Yet they rarely reach an altitude of 5000 feet , and their loftiest peaks are no more than 7000 feet high @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ series , and containing beds of coal , can be shown to be of shallow-water origin , or even sometimes to have originated in swamps in the open air . But what is more surprising , the lowest part of this great Palaeozoic series , instead of having been thrown down at the bottom of an abyss more than 40,000 feet deep , consists of sediment ( the Potsdam sandstone ) , evidently spread out on the bottom of a shallow sea , on which ripple-marked sands were occasionally formed . This vast thickness of 40,000 feet is not obtained by adding together the maximum density attained by each formation in distant parts of the chain , but by measuring the successive groups as they are exposed in a very limited area , and where the denuded edges of the vertical strata forming the parallel folds alluded to in Chapter 5 " crop out " at the surface . Our attention has been called by Mr. James Hall , Palaeontologist of New York , to the fact that these Palaeozoic rocks of the Appalachian chain , which are of such enormous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , thin out gradually as they are traced to the westward , where evidently the contemporaneous seas allowed organic rocks to be formed by corals , echinoderms , and encrinites in clearer water , and where , although the same successive periods are represented , the total mass of strata from the Silurian to the Carboniferous , instead of being 40,000 is only 4000 feet thick . A like phenomenon is exhibited in every mountainous country , as , for example , in the European Alps ; but we need not go farther than the north of England for its illustration . Thus in Lancashire and central England the thickness of the Carboniferous formation , including the Millstone Grit and Yoredale beds , is computed to be more than 18,000 feet ; to this we may add the Mountain Limestone , at least 2000 feet in thickness , and the overlying Permian and Triassic formations , 3000 or 4000 feet thick . How then does it happen that the loftiest hills of Yorkshire and Lancashire , instead of being 24,000 feet high , never rise above 3000 feet ? For here @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the great thicknesses are sometimes found in close approximation and in a region only a few miles in diameter . It is true that these same sets of strata do not preserve their full force when followed for indefinite distances . Thus the 18,000 feet of Carboniferous grits and shales in Lancashire , before alluded to , gradually thin out , as Mr. Hull has shown , as they extend southward , by attenuation or original deficiency of sediment , and not in consequence of subsequent denudation , so that when we have followed them for about 100 miles into Leicestershire , they have dwindled away to a thickness of only 3000 feet . In the same region the Carboniferous limestone attains so unusual a thickness  - -  namely , more than 4000 feet  --  as to appear to compensate in some measure for the deficiency of contemporaneous sedimentary rock . ( Hull Quarterly Geological Journal volume 24 page 322 1868 . ) ( FIGURE 82 . Unconformable Palaeozoic strata , Sutherlandshire ( Murchison ) . Queenaig ( 2673 feet ) . 1 . Laurentian gneiss. 2 . Cambrian conglomerate and sandstone . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ annelid burrows . ) It is admitted that when two formations are unconformable their fossil remains almost always differ considerably . The break in the continuity of the organic forms seems connected with a great lapse of time , and the same interval has allowed extensive disturbance of the strata , and removal of parts of them by denudation , to take place . The more we extend our investigations the more numerous do the proofs of these breaks become , and they extend to the most ancient rocks yet discovered . The oldest examples yet brought to light in the British Isles are on the borders of Rosshire and Sutherlandshire , and have been well described by Sir Roderick Murchison , by whom their chronological relations were admirably worked out , and proved to be very different from those which previous observers had imagined them to be . I had an opportunity in the autumn of 1869 of verifying the splendid section given in Figure 82 by climbing in a few hours from the banks of Loch Assynt to the summit of the mountain called Queenaig , 2673 feet high @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Laurentian , Cambrian , and Silurian , to be explained in Chapters 25 and 26 , not only occur in succession in this one mountain , but their unconformable junctions are distinctly exposed to view . To begin with the oldest set of rocks , No. 1 ; they consist chiefly of hornblendic gneiss , and in the neighbouring Hebrides form whole islands , attaining a thickness of thousands of feet , although they have suffered such contortions and denudation that they seldom rise more than a few hundred feet above the sea-level . In discordant stratification upon the edges of this gneiss reposes No. 2 , a group of conglomerate and purple sandstone referable to the Cambrian ( or Longmynd ) formation , which can elsewhere be shown to be characterised by its peculiar organic remains . On this again rests No. 3 , a lower member of the important group called Silurian , an outlier of which , 3 ' , caps the summit of Queenaig , attesting the removal by denudation of rocks of the same age , which once extended from the great mass 3 to 3 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it is clear that in its original state it was formed of fine sand , perforated by numerous lob-worms or annelids , which left their burrows in the shape of tubular hollows ( Chapter 26 , Figure 563 of Arenicolites ) , hundreds , nay thousands , of which I saw as I ascended the mountain . ( FIGURE 83 . Diagrammatic section of the same groups near Queenaig ( Murchison ) through west ( left ) , Suilvein , Assynt and Ben More , east ( right ) . 1 . Laurentian gneiss. 2 . Cambrian conglomerate and sandstone . 3 , 3 ' . Quartzose Lower Silurian , with annelid burrows . 3a . Fossiliferous Silurian limestone . 3b . Quartzose , micaceous and gneissose rocks ( altered Silurian ) . ) In Queenaig we only behold this single quartzose member of the Silurian series , but in the neighbouring country ( see Figure 83 ) it is seen to the eastward to be followed by limestones , 3a , and schists , 3b , presenting numerous folds , and becoming more and more metamorphic and crystalline , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strike , they much resemble in appearance the group No. 1 . It is very seldom that in the same country one continuous formation , such as the Silurian , is , as in this case , more fossiliferous and less altered by volcanic heat in its older than in its newer strata , and still more rare to find an underlying and unconformable group like the Cambrian retaining its original condition of a conglomerate and sandstone more perfectly than the overlying formation . Here also we may remark in regard to the origin of these Cambrian rocks that they were evidently produced at the expense of the underlying Laurentian , for the rounded pebbles occurring in them are identical in composition and texture with that crystalline gneiss which constitutes the contorted beds of the inferior formation No. 1 . When the reader has studied the chapter on metamorphism , and has become aware how much modification by heat , pressure , and chemical action is required before the conversion of sedimentary into crystalline strata can be brought about , he will appreciate the insight which we thus gain into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Laurentian rocks long before the Cambrian pebbles of quartz and gneiss were derived from them . The Laurentian is estimated by Sir William Logan to amount in Canada to 30,000 feet in thickness . As to the Cambrian , it is supposed by Sir Roderick Murchison that the fragment left in Sutherlandshire is about 3500 feet thick , and in Wales and the borders of Shropshire this formation may equal 10,000 feet , while the Silurian strata No. 3 , difficult as it may be to measure them in their various foldings to the eastward , where they have been invaded by intrusive masses of granite , are supposed many times to surpass the Cambrian in volume and density . But although we are dealing here with stratified rocks , each of which would be several miles in thickness , if they were fully represented , the whole of them do not attain the elevation of a single mile above the level of the sea . COMPUTATION OF THE AVERAGE ANNUAL AMOUNT OF SUBAERIAL DENUDATION . The geology of the district above alluded to may assist our imagination in conceiving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of which may in their turn have formed continents and oceanic basins , have been disturbed , folded , and denuded even in the course of a few out of many of those geological periods to which our imperfect records relate . It is not easy for us to overestimate the effects which causes in every day action must produce when the multiplying power of time is taken into account . Attempts were made by Manfredi in 1736 , and afterwards by Playfair in 1802 , to calculate the time which it would require to enable the rivers to deliver over the whole of the land into the basin of the ocean . The data were at first too imperfect and vague to allow them even to approximate to safe conclusions . But in our own time similar investigations have been renewed with more prospect of success , the amount brought down by many large rivers to the sea having been more accurately ascertained . Mr. Alfred Tylor , in 1850 , inferred that the quantity of detritus now being distributed over the sea-bottom would , at the end of 10,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extent of at least three inches . ( Tylor Philosophical Magazine 4th series page 268 1850 . ) Subsequently Mr. Croll , in 1867 , and again , with more exactness , in 1868 , deduced from the latest measurement of the sediment transported by European and American rivers the rate of subaerial denudation to which the surface of large continents is exposed , taking especially the hydrographical basin of the Mississippi as affording the best available measure of the average waste of the land . The conclusion arrived at in his able memoir was that the whole terrestrial surface is denuded at the rate of one foot in 6000 years ( Croll Philosophical Magazine 1868 page 381. ) , and this opinion was simultaneously enforced by his fellow-labourer , Mr. Geikie , who , being jointly engaged in the same line of inquiry , published a luminous essay on the subject in 1868 . The student , by referring to my " Principles of Geology " ( Volume 1 page 442 1867. ) may see that Messrs . Humphrey and Abbot , during their survey of the Mississippi , attempted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ down annually to the sea by that river , including not only the mud held in suspension , but also the sand and gravel forced along the bottom . It is evident that when we know the dimensions of the area which is drained , and the annual quantity of earthy matter taken from it and borne into the sea , we can affirm how much on an average has been removed from the general surface in one year , and there seems no danger of our overrating the mean rate of waste by selecting the Mississippi as our example , for that river drains a country equal to more than half the continent of Europe , extends through twenty degrees of latitude , and therefore through regions enjoying a great variety of climate , and some of its tributaries descend from mountains of great height . The Mississippi is also more likely to afford us a fair test of ordinary denudation , because , unlike the St. Lawrence and its tributaries , there are no great lakes in which the fluviatile sediment is thrown down and arrested in its way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have to remember that there are large deserts in which there is scarcely any rainfall , and tracts which are as rainless as parts of Peru , and these must not be neglected as counterbalancing others , in the tropics , where the quantity of rain is in excess . If then , argues Mr. Geikie , we assume that the Mississippi is lowering the surface of the great basin which it drains at the rate of one foot in 6000 years , 10 feet in 60,000 years , 100 feet in 600,000 years , and 1000 feet in 6,000,000 years , it would not require more than about 4,500,000 years to wear away the whole of the North American continent if its mean height is correctly estimated by Humboldt at 748 feet . And if the mean height of all the land now above the sea throughout the globe is 1000 feet , as some geographers believe , it would only require six million years to subject a mass of rock equal in volume to the whole of the land to the action of subaerial denudation . It may be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ equally derived from the general surface of the country , inasmuch as plains , water-sheds , and level ground at all heights remain comparatively unaltered ; but this , as Mr. Geikie has well pointed out , does not affect our estimate of the sum total of denudation . The amount remains the same , and if we allow too little for the loss from the surface of table-lands we only increase the proportion of the loss sustained by the sides and bottoms of the valleys , and vice versa . ( Transactions of the Geological Society Glasgow volume 3 page 169 . ) ANTAGONISM OF VOLCANIC FORCE TO THE LEVELLING POWER OF RUNNING WATER . In all these estimates it is assumed that the entire quantity of land above the sea-level remains on an average undiminished in spite of annual waste . Were it otherwise the subaerial denudation would be continually lessened by the diminution of the height and dimensions of the land exposed to waste . Unfortunately we have as yet no accurate data enabling us to measure the action of that force by which the inequalities of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the height of the continents and depth of the seas made to continue unimpaired . I stated in 1830 in the " Principles of Geology " ( 1st edition chapter 10 page 167 1830 ; see also 10th edition volume 1 chapter 15 page 327 1867. ) , that running water and volcanic action are two antagonistic forces ; the one labouring continually to reduce the whole of the land to the level of the sea , the other to restore and maintain the inequalities of the crust on which the very existence of islands and continents depends . I stated , however , that when we endeavour to form some idea of the relation of these destroying and renovating forces , we must always bear in mind that it is not simply by upheaval that subterranean movements can counteract the levelling force of running water . For whereas the transportation of sediment from the land to the ocean would raise the general sea-level , the subsidence of the sea-bottom , by increasing its capacity , would check this rise and prevent the submergence of the land . I have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that there is , on the whole , more subsidence than upheaval , we must suppose the diameter of the planet to be always increasing , by that quantity of volcanic matter which is annually poured out in the shape of lava or ashes , whether on the land or in the bed of the sea , and which is derived from the interior of the earth . The abstraction of this matter causes , no doubt , subterranean vacuities and a corresponding giving way of the surface ; if it were not so , the average density of parts of the interior would be always lessening and the size of the planet increasing . ( Principles volume 2 page 237 ; also 1st edition page 447 1830 . ) Our inability to estimate the amount or direction of the movements due to volcanic power by no means renders its efficacy as a land-preserving force in past times a mere matter of conjecture . The student will see in Chapter 24 that we have proofs of Carboniferous forests hundreds of miles in extent which grew on the lowlands or deltas near @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other forests , until in some regions fluviatile and shallow-water strata with occasional seams of coal were piled one over the other , till they attained a thickness of many thousand feet . Such accumulations , observed in Great Britain and America on opposite sides of the Atlantic , imply the long-continued existence of land vegetation , and of rivers draining a former continent placed where there is now deep sea . It will be also seen in Chapter 25 that we have evidence of a rich terrestrial flora , the Devonian , even more ancient than the Carboniferous ; while on the other hand , the later Triassic , Oolitic , Cretaceous , and successive Tertiary periods have all supplied us with fossil plants , insects , or terrestrial mammalia ; showing that , in spite of great oscillations of level and continued changes in the position of land and sea , the volcanic forces have maintained a due proportion of dry land . We may appeal also to fresh-water formations , such as the Purbeck and Wealden , to prove that in the Oolitic and Neocomian eras there were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ know that other spaces , now above water , were submerged . HOW FAR THE TRANSFER OF SEDIMENT FROM THE LAND TO A NEIGHBOURING SEA-BOTTOM MAY AFFECT SUBTERRANEAN MOVEMENTS . Little as we understand at present the laws which govern the distribution of volcanic heat in the interior and crust of the globe , by which mountain chains , high table-lands , and the abysses of the ocean are formed , it seems clear that this heat is the prime mover on which all the grander features in the external configuration of the planet depend . It has been suggested that the stripping off by denudation of dense masses from one part of a continent and the delivery of the same into the bed of the ocean must have a decided effect in causing changes of temperature in the earth 's crust below , or , in other words , in causing the subterranean isothermals to shift their position . If this be so , one part of the crust may be made to rise , and another to sink , by the expansion and contraction of the rocks , of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at present , discuss this subject , of which I have treated more fully elsewhere ( Principles volume 2 page 229 1868. ) , but may state here that I believe this transfer of sediment to play a very subordinate part in modifying those movements on which the configuration of the earth 's crust depends . In order that strata of shallow-water origin should be able to attain a thickness of several thousand feet , and so come to exert a considerable downward pressure , there must have been first some independent and antecedent causes at work which have given rise to the incipient shallow receptacle in which the sediment began to accumulate . The same causes there continuing to depress the sea-bottom , room would be made for fresh accessions of sediment , and it would only be by a long repetition of the depositing process that the new matter could acquire weight enough to affect the temperature of the rocks far below , so as to increase or diminish their volume . PERMANENCE OF CONTINENTAL AND OCEANIC AREAS . If the thickness of more than 40,000 feet of sedimentary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of downward movements in Palaeozoic times in a district now forming the eastern border of North America , it also proves , as before hinted , the continued existence and waste of some neighbouring continent , probably formed of Laurentian rocks , and situated where the Atlantic now prevails . Such an hypothesis would be in perfect harmony with the conclusions forced upon us by the study of the present configuration of our continents , and the relation of their height to the depth of the oceanic basins ; also to the considerable elevation and extent sometimes reached by drift containing shells of recent species , and still more by the fact of sedimentary strata , several thousand feet thick , as those of central Sicily , or such as flank the Alps and Apennines , containing fossil Mollusca sometimes almost wholly identical with species still living . I have remarked elsewhere ( Principles volume 1 page 265 1867. ) that upward and downward movements of 1000 feet or more would turn much land into sea and sea into land in the continental areas and their borders , whereas oscillations of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the ocean generally , believed as it is to have a mean depth of 15,000 feet , and which , whether this estimate be correct or not , is certainly of great profundity . Subaerial denudation would not of itself lessen the area of the land , but would tend to fill up with sediment seas of moderate depth adjoining the coast . The coarser matter falls to the bottom near the shore in the first still water which it reaches , and whenever the sea-bottom on which this matter has been thrown is slightly elevated , it becomes land , and an upheaval of a thousand feet causes it to attain the mean elevation of continents in general . Suppose , therefore , we had ascertained that the triturating power of subaerial denudation might in a given time  --  in three , or six , or a greater number of millions of years  --  pulverise a volume of rock equal in dimensions to all the present land , we might yet find , could we revisit the earth at the end of such a period , that the continents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; we should find the rivers employed in carrying down to the sea the very same mud , sand , and pebbles with which they had been charged in our own time , the superficial alluvial matter as well as a great thickness of sedimentary strata would inclose shells , all or a great part of which we should recognise as specifically identical with those already known to us as living . Every geologist is aware that great as have been the geographical changes in the northern hemisphere since the commencement of the Glacial Period , there having been submergence and re-emergence of land to the extent of 1000 feet vertically , and in the temperate latitudes great vicissitudes of climate , the marine mollusca have not changed , and the same drift which had been carried down to the sea at the beginning of the period is now undergoing a second transportation in the same direction . As when we have measured a fraction of time in an hour-glass we have only to reverse the position of our chronometer and we make the same sand measure over again the duration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ force has remoulded the form of a continent and the adjoining sea-bottom , the same materials are made to do duty a second time . It is true that at each oscillation of level the solid rocks composing the original continent suffer some fresh denudation , and do not remain unimpaired like the wooden and glass framework of the hour-glass , still the wear and tear suffered by the larger area exposed to subaerial denudation consists either of loose drift or of sedimentary strata , which were thrown down in seas near the land , and subsequently upraised , the same continents and oceanic basins remaining in existence all the while . From all that we know of the extreme slowness of the upward and downward movements which bring about even slight geographical changes , we may infer that it would require a long succession of geological periods to cause the submarine and supramarine areas to change places , even if the ascending movements in the one region and the descending in the other were continuously in one direction . But we have only to appeal to the structure of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ water formations of various ages crowded into a limited area , to convince ourselves that mountain chains are the result of great oscillations of level . High land is not produced simply by uniform upheaval , but by a predominance of elevatory over subsiding movements . Where the ocean is extremely deep it is because the sinking of the bottom has been in excess , in spite of interruptions by upheaval . Yet persistent as may be the leading features of land and sea on the globe , they are not immutable . Some of the finest mud is doubtless carried to indefinite distances from the coast by marine currents , and we are taught by deep-sea dredgings that in clear water at depths equalling the height of the Alps organic beings may flourish , and their spoils slowly accumulate on the bottom . We also occasionally obtain evidence that submarine volcanoes are pouring out ashes and streams of lava in mid-ocean as well as on land ( see Principles volume 2 page 64 ) , and that wherever mountains like Etna , Vesuvius , and the Canary Islands are now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upheaval , by which beds of ashes full of recent marine shells have been uplifted many hundred feet . We need not be surprised , therefore , if we learn from geology that the continents and oceans were not always placed where they now are , although the imagination may well be overpowered when it endeavours to contemplate the quantity of time required for such revolutions . We shall have gained a great step if we can approximate to the number of millions of years in which the average aqueous denudation going on upon the land would convey seaward a quantity of matter equal to the average volume of our continents , and this might give us a gauge of the minimum of volcanic force necessary to counteract such levelling power of running water ; but to discover a relation between these great agencies and the rate at which species of organic beings vary , is at present wholly beyond the reach of our computation , though perhaps it may not prove eventually to transcend the powers of man . CHAPTER VIII . CHRONOLOGICAL CLASSIFICATION OF ROCKS . Aqueous , Plutonic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Primary , Secondary , and Tertiary ; Palaeozoic , Mesozoic , and Cainozoic explained . On the different Ages of the aqueous Rocks . Three principal Tests of relative Age : Superposition , Mineral Character , and Fossils . Change of Mineral Character and Fossils in the same continuous Formation . Proofs that distinct Species of Animals and Plants have lived at successive Periods . Distinct Provinces of indigenous Species . Great Extent of single Provinces . Similar Laws prevailed at successive Geological Periods . Relative Importance of mineral and palaeontological Characters . Test of Age by included Fragments . Frequent Absence of Strata of intervening Periods . Tabular Views of fossiliferous Strata . CHRONOLOGY OF ROCKS . In the first chapter it was stated that the four great classes of rocks , the aqueous , the volcanic , the Plutonic , and the metamorphic , would each be considered not only in reference to their mineral characters , and mode of origin , but also to their relative age . In regard to the aqueous rocks , we have already seen that they are stratified , that some are calcareous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sand , others of pebbles ; that some contain fresh-water , others marine fossils , and so forth ; but the student has still to learn which rocks , exhibiting some or all of these characters , have originated at one period of the earth 's history , and which at another . To determine this point in reference to the fossiliferous formations is more easy than in any other class , and it is therefore the most convenient and natural method to begin by establishing a chronology for these strata , and then to refer as far as possible to the same divisions , the several groups of Plutonic , volcanic , and metamorphic rocks . Such a system of classification is not only recommended by its greater clearness and facility of application , but is also best fitted to strike the imagination by bringing into one view the contemporaneous revolutions of the inorganic and organic creations of former times . For the sedimentary formations are most readily distinguished by the different species of fossil animals and plants which they inclose , and of which one assemblage after another has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In the present work , therefore , the four great classes of rocks , the aqueous , Plutonic , volcanic , and metamorphic , will form four parallel , or nearly parallel , columns in one chronological table . They will be considered as four sets of monuments relating to four contemporaneous , or nearly contemporaneous , series of events . I shall endeavour , in a subsequent chapter on the Plutonic rocks , to explain the manner in which certain masses belonging to each of the four classes of rocks may have originated simultaneously at every geological period , and how the earth 's crust may have been continually remodelled , above and below , by aqueous and igneous causes , from times indefinitely remote . In the same manner as aqueous and fossiliferous strata are now formed in certain seas or lakes , while in other places volcanic rocks break out at the surface , and are connected with reservoirs of melted matter at vast depths in the bowels of the earth , so , at every era of the past , fossiliferous deposits and superficial igneous rocks were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and some sedimentary strata were exposed to heat , and made to assume a crystalline or metamorphic structure . It can by no means be taken for granted , that during all these changes the solid crust of the earth has been increasing in thickness . It has been shown , that so far as aqueous action is concerned , the gain by fresh deposits , and the loss by denudation , must at each period have been equal ( see Chapter 6 ) ; and in like manner , in the inferior portion of the earth 's crust , the acquisition of new crystalline rocks , at each successive era , may merely have counterbalanced the loss sustained by the melting of materials previously consolidated . As to the relative antiquity of the crystalline foundations of the earth 's crust , when compared to the fossiliferous and volcanic rocks which they support , I have already stated , in the first chapter , that to pronounce an opinion on this matter is as difficult as at once to decide which of the two , whether the foundations or superstructure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the oldest . We have seen that , to answer this question , we must first be prepared to say whether the work of decay and restoration had gone on most rapidly above or below ; whether the average duration of the piles has exceeded that of the buildings , or the contrary . So also in regard to the relative age of the superior and inferior portions of the earth 's crust ; we can not hazard even a conjecture on this point , until we know whether , upon an average , the power of water above , or that of heat below , is most efficacious in giving new forms to solid matter . The early geologists gave to all the crystalline and non-fossiliferous rocks the name of Primitive or Primary , under the idea that they were formed anterior to the appearance of life upon the earth , while the aqueous or fossiliferous strata were termed Secondary , and alluviums or other superficial deposits , Tertiary . The meaning of these terms , has , however , been gradually modified with advancing knowledge , and they are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all geological formations can be classed , each of them being characterised by the presence of distinctive groups of organic remains rather than by any mechanical peculiarities of the strata themselves . If , therefore , we retain the term " primary , " it must not be held to designate a set of crystalline rocks some of which have been proved to be even of Tertiary age , but must be applied to all rocks older than the secondary formations . Some geologists , to avoid misapprehension , have introduced the term Palaeozoic for primary , from palaion , " ancient , " and zoon , " an organic being , " still retaining the terms secondary and tertiary ; Mr. Phillips , for the sake of uniformity , has proposed Mesozoic , for secondary , from mesos , " middle , " etc. ; and Cainozoic , for tertiary , from kainos , " recent , " etc. ; but the terms primary , secondary , and tertiary have the claim of priority in their favour , and are of corresponding value . It may perhaps be suggested that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anterior in date to the oldest of the primary fossiliferous rocks . This opinion is doubtless true , and will be discussed in future chapters ; but I may here observe , that when we arrange the four classes of rocks in four parallel columns in one table of chronology , it is by no means assumed that these columns are all of equal length ; one may begin at an earlier period than the rest , and another may come down to a later point of time , and we may not be yet acquainted with the most ancient of the primary fossiliferous beds , or with the newest of the hypogene . For reasons already stated , I proceed first to treat of the aqueous or fossiliferous formations considered in chronological order or in relation to the different periods at which they have been deposited . There are three principal tests by which we determine the age of a given set of strata ; first , superposition ; secondly , mineral character ; and , thirdly , organic remains . Some aid can occasionally be derived from a fourth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deposit including in it fragments of a pre-existing rock , by which the relative ages of the two may , even in the absence of all other evidence , be determined . SUPERPOSITION . The first and principal test of the age of one aqueous deposit , as compared to another , is relative position . It has been already stated , that , where strata are horizontal , the bed which lies uppermost is the newest of the whole , and that which lies at the bottom the most ancient . So , of a series of sedimentary formations , they are like volumes of history , in which each writer has recorded the annals of his own times , and then laid down the book , with the last written page uppermost , upon the volume in which the events of the era immediately preceding were commemorated . In this manner a lofty pile of chronicles is at length accumulated ; and they are so arranged as to indicate , by their position alone , the order in which the events recorded in them have occurred . In regard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are some regions where , as the student has already been informed , the beds have been disturbed , and sometimes extensively thrown over and turned upside down . ( See Chapter 5 . ) But an experienced geologist can rarely be deceived by these exceptional cases . When he finds that the strata are fractured , curved , inclined , or vertical , he knows that the original order of superposition must be doubtful , and he then endeavours to find sections in some neighbouring district where the strata are horizontal , or only slightly inclined . Here , the true order of sequence of the entire series of deposits being ascertained , a key is furnished for settling the chronology of those strata where the displacement is extreme . MINERAL CHARACTER . The same rocks may often be observed to retain for miles , or even hundreds of miles , the same mineral peculiarities , if we follow the planes of stratification , or trace the beds , if they be undisturbed , in a horizontal direction . But if we pursue them vertically , or in any direction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ almost immediately . In that case we can scarcely ever penetrate a stratified mass for a few hundred yards without beholding a succession of extremely dissimilar rocks , some of fine , others of coarse grain , some of mechanical , others of chemical origin ; some calcareous , others argillaceous , and others siliceous . These phenomena lead to the conclusion that rivers and currents have dispersed the same sediment over wide areas at one period , but at successive periods have been charged , in the same region , with very different kinds of matter . The first observers were so astonished at the vast spaces over which they were able to follow the same homogeneous rocks in a horizontal direction , that they came hastily to the opinion , that the whole globe had been environed by a succession of distinct aqueous formations , disposed round the nucleus of the planet , like the concentric coats of an onion . But , although , in fact , some formations may be continuous over districts as large as half of Europe , or even more , yet most of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ change their lithological character . Sometimes they thin out gradually , as if the supply of sediment had failed in that direction , or they come abruptly to an end , as if we had arrived at the borders of the ancient sea or lake which served as their receptacle . It no less frequently happens that they vary in mineral aspect and composition , as we pursue them horizontally . For example , we trace a limestone for a hundred miles , until it becomes more arenaceous , and finally passes into sand , or sandstone . We may then follow this sandstone , already proved by its continuity to be of the same age , throughout another district a hundred miles or more in length . ORGANIC REMAINS . This character must be used as a criterion of the age of a formation , or of the contemporaneous origin of two deposits in distant places , under very much the same restrictions as the test of mineral composition . First , the same fossils may be traced over wide regions , if we examine strata in the direction of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Secondly , while the same fossils prevail in a particular set of strata for hundreds of miles in a horizontal direction , we seldom meet with the same remains for many fathoms , and very rarely for several hundred yards , in a vertical line , or a line transverse to the strata . This fact has now been verified in almost all parts of the globe , and has led to a conviction that at successive periods of the past , the same area of land and water has been inhabited by species of animals and plants even more distinct than those which now people the antipodes , or which now co-exist in the arctic , temperate , and tropical zones . It appears that from the remotest periods there has been ever a coming in of new organic forms , and an extinction of those which pre-existed on the earth ; some species having endured for a longer , others for a shorter , time ; while none have ever reappeared after once dying out . The law which has governed the succession of species , whether we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be expressed in the verse of the poet :  --  Natura il fece , e poi ruppe la stampa . Ariosto . Nature made him , and then broke the die . And this circumstance it is , which confers on fossils their highest value as chronological tests , giving to each of them , in the eyes of the geologist , that authority which belongs to contemporary medals in history . The same can not be said of each peculiar variety of rock ; for some of these , as red marl and red sandstone , for example , may occur at once at the top , bottom , and middle of the entire sedimentary series ; exhibiting in each position so perfect an identity of mineral aspect as to be undistinguishable . Such exact repetitions , however , of the same mixtures of sediment have not often been produced , at distant periods , in precisely the same parts of the globe ; and even where this has happened , we are seldom in any danger of confounding together the monuments of remote eras , when we have studied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It was remarked that the same species of organic remains can not be traced horizontally , or in the direction of the planes of stratifications for indefinite distances . This might have been expected from analogy ; for when we inquire into the present distribution of living beings , we find that the habitable surface of the sea and land may be divided into a considerable number of distinct provinces , each peopled by a peculiar assemblage of animals and plants . In the " Principles of Geology , " I have endeavoured to point out the extent and probable origin of these separate divisions ; and it was shown that climate is only one of many causes on which they depend , and that difference of longitude as well as latitude is generally accompanied by a dissimilarity of indigenous species . As different seas , therefore , and lakes are inhabited , at the same period , by different aquatic animals and plants , and as the lands adjoining these may be peopled by distinct terrestrial species , it follows that distinct fossils will be imbedded in contemporaneous deposits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abounded in every climate , or in every part of the globe where , so far as we can discover , a corresponding temperature and other conditions favourable to their existence are found  --  the identification of mineral masses of the same age , by means of their included organic contents , would be a matter of still greater certainty . Nevertheless , the extent of some single zoological provinces , especially those of marine animals , is very great ; and our geological researches have proved that the same laws prevailed at remote periods ; for the fossils are often identical throughout wide spaces , and in detached deposits , consisting of rocks varying entirely in their mineral nature . The doctrine here laid down will be more readily understood , if we reflect on what is now going on in the Mediterranean . That entire sea may be considered as one zoological province ; for although certain species of testacea and zoophytes may be very local , and each region has probably some species peculiar to it , still a considerable number are common to the whole Mediterranean . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bed of this inland sea should be converted into land , the geologist might be enabled , by reference to organic remains , to prove the contemporaneous origin of various mineral masses scattered over a space equal in area to half of Europe . Deposits , for example , are well known to be now in progress in this sea in the deltas of the Po , Rhone , Nile , and other rivers , which differ as greatly from each other in the nature of their sediment as does the composition of the mountains which their drain . There are also other quarters of the Mediterranean , as off the coast of Campania , or near the base of Etna , in Sicily , or in the Grecian Archipelago , where another class of rocks is now forming ; where showers of volcanic ashes occasionally fall into the sea , and streams of lava overflow its bottom ; and where , in the intervals between volcanic eruptions , beds of sand and clay are frequently derived from the waste of cliffs , or the turbid waters of rivers . Limestones @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ here and there precipitated from the waters of mineral springs , some of which rise up from the bottom of the sea . In all these detached formations , so diversified in their lithological characters , the remains of the same shells , corals , crustacea , and fish are becoming inclosed ; or , at least , a sufficient number must be common to the different localities to enable the zoologist to refer them all to one contemporaneous assemblage of species . There are , however , certain combinations of geographical circumstances which cause distinct provinces of animals and plants to be separated from each other by very narrow limits ; and hence it must happen that strata will be sometimes formed in contiguous regions , differing widely both in mineral contents and organic remains . Thus , for example , the testacea , zoophytes , and fish of the Red Sea are , as a group , extremely distinct from those inhabiting the adjoining parts of the Mediterranean , although the two seas are separated only by the narrow isthmus of Suez . Calcareous formations have accumulated on a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and fossil shells of existing species are well preserved therein ; and we know that at the mouth of the Nile large deposits of mud are amassed , including the remains of Mediterranean species . It follows , therefore , that if at some future period the bed of the Red Sea should be laid dry , the geologist might experience great difficulties in endeavouring to ascertain the relative age of these formations , which , although dissimilar both in organic and mineral characters , were of synchronous origin . But , on the other hand , we must not forget that the north-western shores of the Arabian Gulf , the plains of Egypt , and the Isthmus of Suez , are all parts of one province of TERRESTRIAL species . Small streams , therefore , occasional land-floods , and those winds which drift clouds of sand along the deserts , might carry down into the Red Sea the same shells of fluviatile and land testacea which the Nile is sweeping into its delta , together with some remains of terrestrial plants and the bones of quadrupeds , whereby the groups @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of their mineral composition and MARINE organic fossils , be shown to have belonged to the same epoch . Yet , while rivers may thus carry down the same fluviatile and terrestrial spoils into two or more seas inhabited by different marine species , it will much more frequently happen that the coexistence of terrestrial species of distinct zoological and botanical provinces will be proved by the identity of the marine beings which inhabited the intervening space . Thus , for example , the land quadrupeds and shells of the valley of the Mississippi , of central America , and of the West India islands differ very considerably , yet their remains are all washed down by rivers flowing from these three zoological provinces into the Gulf of Mexico . In some parts of the globe , at the present period , the line of demarkation between distinct provinces of animals and plants is not very strongly marked , especially where the change is determined by temperature , as it is in seas extending from the temperate to the tropical zone , or from the temperate to the arctic regions . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ species to another . In like manner the geologist , in studying particular formations of remote periods , has sometimes been able to trace the gradation from one ancient province to another , by observing carefully the fossils of all the intermediate places . His success in thus acquiring a knowledge of the zoological or botanical geography of very distant eras has been mainly owing to this circumstance , that the mineral character has no tendency to be affected by climate . A large river may convey yellow or red mud into some part of the ocean , where it may be dispersed by a current over an area several hundred leagues in length , so as to pass from the tropics into the temperate zone . If the bottom of the sea be afterwards upraised , the organic remains imbedded in such yellow or red strata may indicate the different animals or plants which once inhabited at the same time the temperate and equatorial regions . It may be true , as a general rule , that groups of the same species of animals and plants may extend over wider @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , palaeontological characters will be of more importance in geological classification than the test of mineral composition ; but it is idle to discuss the relative value of these tests , as the aid of both is indispensable , and it fortunately happens , that where the one criterion fails , we can often avail ourselves of the other . TEST BY INCLUDED FRAGMENTS OF OLDER ROCKS . It was stated , that proof may sometimes be obtained of the relative date of two formations by fragments of an older rock being included in a newer one . This evidence may sometimes be of great use , where a geologist is at a loss to determine the relative age of two formations from want of clear sections exhibiting their true order of position , or because the strata of each group are vertical . In such cases we sometimes discover that the more modern rock has been in part derived from the degradation of the older . Thus , for example , we may find chalk in one part of a country , and in another strata of clay , sand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of that peculiar flint , of which layers more or less continuous are characteristic of the chalk , and which include fossil shells , sponges , and foraminifera of cretaceous species , we may confidently infer that the chalk was the oldest of the two formations . CHRONOLOGICAL GROUPS . The number of groups into which the fossiliferous strata may be separated are more or less numerous , according to the views of classification which different geologists entertain ; but when we have adopted a certain system of arrangement , we immediately find that a few only of the entire series of groups occur one upon the other in any single section or district . ( FIGURE 84 . Seven fossiliferous groups . ) The thinning out of individual strata was before described ( Chapter 2 ) . But let the diagram ( Figure 84 ) represent seven fossiliferous groups , instead of as many strata . It will then be seen that in the middle all the superimposed formations are present ; but in consequence of some of them thinning out , No. 2 and No. 5 are absent at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the other . ( FIGURE 85 . Section South of Bristol ( A.C. Ramsay . ) Dundry Hill . Length of section 4 miles . a-b . Level of the sea . 1 . Inferior Oolite. 2 . Lias . 3 . New Red Sandstone . 4 . Dolomitic or magnesian conglomerate . 5 . Upper coal-measures ( shales , etc. ) 6 . Pennant rock ( sandstone. ) 7 . Lower coal-measures ( shales , etc. ) 8 . Carboniferous or mountain limestone . 9 . Old Red Sandstone . ) In another diagram ( Figure 85 ) , a real section of the geological formations in the neighbourhood of Bristol and the Mendip Hills is presented to the reader , as laid down on a true scale by Professor Ramsay , where the newer groups 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 rest unconformably on the formations 5 , 6 , 7 and 8 . At the southern end of the line of section we meet with the beds No. 3 ( the New Red Sandstone ) resting immediately on Nos. 7 and 8 , while farther north as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ superimposed one upon the other , comprising all the strata from the inferior Oolite , No. 1 , to the coal and carboniferous limestone . The limited horizontal extension of the groups 1 and 2 is owing to denudation , as these formations end abruptly , and have left outlying patches to attest the fact of their having originally covered a much wider area . In order , therefore , to establish a chronological succession of fossiliferous groups , a geologist must begin with a single section in which several sets of strata lie one upon the other . He must then trace these formations , by attention to their mineral character and fossils , continuously , as far as possible , from the starting-point . As often as he meets with new groups , he must ascertain by superposition their age relatively to those first examined , and thus learn how to intercalate them in a tabular arrangement of the whole . By this means the German , French , and English geologists have determined the succession of strata throughout a great part of Europe , and have adopted pretty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their representatives in the British Islands . ABRIDGED GENERAL TABLE OF FOSSILIFEROUS STRATA . 1 . RECENT .  --  POST-TERTIARY.  --  TERTIARY OR CAINOZOIC .  --  NEOZOIC. 2 . POST-PLIOCENE.  --  POST-TERTIARY.  --  TERTIARY OR CAINOZOIC .  --  NEOZOIC. 3 . NEWER-PLIOCENE.  --  PLIOCENE .  --  TERTIARY OR CAINOZOIC .  --  NEOZOIC. 4 . OLDER PLIOCENE .  --  PLIOCENE .  --  TERTIARY OR CAINOZOIC .  --  NEOZOIC. 5 . UPPER MIOCENE .  --  MIOCENE .  --  TERTIARY OR CAINOZOIC .  --  NEOZOIC. 6 . LOWER MIOCENE .  --  MIOCENE .  --  TERTIARY OR CAINOZOIC .  --  NEOZOIC. 7 . UPPER EOCENE .  --  EOCENE .  --  TERTIARY OR CAINOZOIC .  --  NEOZOIC. 8 . MIDDLE EOCENE .  --  EOCENE .  --  TERTIARY OR CAINOZOIC .  --  NEOZOIC. 9 . LOWER EOCENE .  --  EOCENE .  --  TERTIARY OR CAINOZOIC .  --  NEOZOIC. 10 . MAESTRICHT BEDS.  --  CRETACEOUS .  --  SECONDARY OR MESOZOIC .  --  NEOZOIC. 11 . WHITE CHALK .  --  CRETACEOUS .  --  SECONDARY OR MESOZOIC .  --  NEOZOIC. 12 . CHLORITIC SERIES .  --  CRETACEOUS .  --  SECONDARY OR MESOZOIC .  --  NEOZOIC. 13 . GAULT .  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . NEOCOMIAN.  --  CRETACEOUS .  --  SECONDARY OR MESOZOIC .  --  NEOZOIC. 15 . WEALDEN .  --  CRETACEOUS .  --  SECONDARY OR MESOZOIC .  --  NEOZOIC. 16 . PURBECK BEDS.  --  JURASSIC .  --  SECONDARY OR MESOZOIC .  --  NEOZOIC. 17 . PORTLAND STONE .  --  JURASSIC .  --  SECONDARY OR MESOZOIC .  --  NEOZOIC. 18 . KIMMERIDGE CLAY .  --  JURASSIC .  --  SECONDARY OR MESOZOIC .  --  NEOZOIC. 19 . CORAL RAG .  --  JURASSIC .  --  SECONDARY OR MESOZOIC .  --  NEOZOIC. 20 . OXFORD CLAY .  --  JURASSIC .  --  SECONDARY OR MESOZOIC .  --  NEOZOIC. 21 . GREAT or BATH OOLITE.  --  JURASSIC .  --  SECONDARY OR MESOZOIC .  --  NEOZOIC. 22 . INFERIOR OOLITE.  --  JURASSIC .  --  SECONDARY OR MESOZOIC .  --  NEOZOIC. 23 . LIAS .  --  JURASSIC .  --  SECONDARY OR MESOZOIC .  --  NEOZOIC. 24 . UPPER TRIAS.  --  TRIASSIC .  --  SECONDARY OR MESOZOIC .  --  NEOZOIC. 25 . MIDDLE TRIAS.  --  TRIASSIC .  --  SECONDARY OR MESOZOIC .  --  NEOZOIC. 26 . LOWER TRIAS.  --  TRIASSIC .  --  SECONDARY OR MESOZOIC .  --  NEOZOIC. 27 . PERMIAN .  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 28 . COAL-MEASURES.  --  CARBONIFEROUS .  --  PRIMARY OR PALAEOZOIC .  --  PALAEOZOIC . 29 . CARBONIFEROUS LIMESTONE .  --  CARBONIFEROUS .  --   --  PRIMARY OR PALAEOZOIC .  - -  PALAEOZOIC. 30 . UPPER DEVONIAN .  --  DEVONIAN .  --  PRIMARY OR PALAEOZOIC .  --  PALAEOZOIC . 31 . MIDDLE DEVONIAN .  --  DEVONIAN .  --  PRIMARY OR PALAEOZOIC .  --  PALAEOZOIC . 32 . LOWER DEVONIAN .  --  DEVONIAN .  --  PRIMARY OR PALAEOZOIC .  --  PALAEOZOIC . 33 . UPPER SILURIAN .  --  SILURIAN .  --  PRIMARY OR PALAEOZOIC .  --  PALAEOZOIC . 34 . LOWER SILURIAN .  --  SILURIAN .  --  PRIMARY OR PALAEOZOIC .  --  PALAEOZOIC . 35 . UPPER CAMBRIAN .  --  CAMBRIAN .  --  PRIMARY OR PALAEOZOIC .  --  PALAEOZOIC . 36 . LOWER CAMBRIAN .  --  CAMBRIAN .  --  PRIMARY OR PALAEOZOIC .  --  PALAEOZOIC . 37 . UPPER LAURENTIAN.  --  LAURENTIAN.  --  PRIMARY OR PALAEOZOIC .  --  PALAEOZOIC . 38 . LOWER LAURENTIAN.  --  LAURENTIAN.  --  PRIMARY OR PALAEOZOIC .  --  PALAEOZOIC . TABULAR VIEW OF THE FOSSILIFEROUS STRATA , SHOWING THE ORDER OF SUPERPOSITION OR CHRONOLOGICAL SUCCESSION OF THE PRINCIPAL GROUPS DESCRIBED IN THIS @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Shells and mammalia , all of living species . BRITISH . Clyde marine strata , with canoes ( Chapter 10 . ) FOREIGN . Danish kitchen middens ( Chapter 10 . ) Lacustrine mud , with remains of Swiss lake-dwellings ( Chapter 10 . ) Marine strata inclosing Temple of Serapis , at Puzzuoli ( Chapter 10. ) 2 . POST-PLIOCENE . Shells , recent mammalia in part extinct . BRITISH . Loam of Brixham cave , with flint implements and bones of extinct and living quadrupeds . ( Chapter 10 . ) Drift near Salisbury , with bones of mammoth , Spermophilus , and stone implements . ( Chapter 10 . ) Glacial drift of Scotland , with marine shells and remains of mammoth . ( Chapter 11 . ) Erratics of Pagham and Selsey Bill . ( Chapter 11 . ) Glacial drift of Wales , with marine fossil shells , about 1400 feet high , on Moel Tryfaen . ( Chapter 11 . ) FOREIGN . Dordogne caves of the reindeer period . ( Chapter 10 . ) Older valley-gravels of Amiens , with flint implements and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Loess of Rhine . ( Chapter 10 . ) Ancient Nile-mud forming river-terraces . ( Chapter 10 . ) Loam and breccia of Liege caverns , with human remains . ( Chapter 10 . ) Australian cave breccias , with bones of extinct marsupials . ( Chapter 10 . ) Glacial drift of Northern Europe . ( Chapters 11 and 12 . ) TERTIARY OR CAINOZOIC . PLIOCENE . 3 . NEWER PLIOCENE . The shells almost all of living species . BRITISH . Bridlington beds , marine Arctic fauna . ( Chapter 13 . ) Glacial boulder formation of Norfolk cliffs . ( Chapter 13 . ) Forest-bed of Norfolk cliffs , with bones of Elephas meridionalis , etc . ( Chapter 13 . ) Chillesford and Aldeby beds , with marine shells , chiefly Arctic . ( Chapter 13 . ) Norwich Crag . ( Chapter 13 . ) FOREIGN . Eastern base of Mount Etna , with marine shells . ( Chapter 13 . ) Sicilian calcareous and tufaceous strata . ( Chapter 13 . ) Lacustrine strata of Upper Val d'Arno . ( Chapter 13 . ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . OLDER PLIOCENE . Extinct species of shells forming a large minority . BRITISH . Red crag of Suffolk , marine shells , some of northern forms . ( Chapter 13 . ) White or coralline crag of Suffolk . ( Chapter 13 . ) FOREIGN . Antwerp crag . ( Chapter 13 . ) Subapennine marls and sands . ( Chapter 13 . ) MIOCENE . 5 . UPPER MIOCENE . Majority of the shells extinct . BRITISH . Wanting . FOREIGN . faluns of Touraine ( Chapter 14. ) faluns , proper , of Bordeaux . ( Chapter 14 . ) Fresh-water strata of Gers . ( Chapter 14 . ) Swiss Oeningen beds , rich in plants and insects . ( Chapter 14 . ) Marine Molasse , Switzerland . ( Chapter 14 . ) Bolderberg beds of Belgium . ( Chapter 14 . ) Vienna basin . ( Chapter 14 . ) Beds of the Superga , near Turin . ( Chapter 14 . ) Deposit at Pikerme , near Athens . ( Chapter 14 . ) Strata of the Siwalik hills , India . ( Chapter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States . ( Chapter 14 . ) Volcanic tuff and limestone of Madeira , the Canaries , and the Azores . ( Chapter 30. ) 6 . LOWER MIOCENE . Nearly all the shells extinct . BRITISH . Hempstead beds , marine and fresh-water strata . ( Chapter 15 . ) Lignites and clays of Bovey Tracey . ( Chapter 15 . ) Isle of Mull leaf-bed , volcanic tuff . ( Chapter 15 . ) FOREIGN . Calcaire de la Beauce , etc . ( Chapter 15 . ) Gres de Fontainebleau . ( Chapter 15 . ) Lacustrine strata of the Limagne d'Auvergne , and the Cantal . ( Chapter 15 . ) Mayence basin . ( Chapter 15 . ) Radaboj beds of Croatia . ( Chapter 15 . ) Brown coal of Germany . ( Chapter 15 . ) Lower Molasse of Switzerland , fresh-water and brackish . ( Chapter 15 . ) Rupelmonde , Kleynspawen , and Tongrian beds of Belgium . ( Chapter 15 . ) Nebraska beds , United States . ( Chapter 15 . ) Lower Miocene beds of Italy . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ( Chapter 15. ) 7 . UPPER EOCENE . BRITISH . Bembridge fluvio-marine strata . ( Chapter 16 . ) Osborne or St. Helen 's series . ( Chapter 16 . ) Headon series , with marine and fresh-water shells . ( Chapter 16 . ) Barton sands and clays ( Chapter 16 . ) FOREIGN . Gypsum of Montmartre , fresh-water with Palaeotherium . ( Chapter 16 . ) Calcaire silicieux , or Travertin inferieur . ( Chapter 16 . ) Gres de Beauchamp , or Sables moyens . ( Chapter 16. ) 8 . MIDDLE EOCENE . BRITISH . Bracklesham beds and Bagshot sands . ( Chapter 16 . ) White clays of Alum Bay and Bournemouth . ( Chapter 16 . ) FOREIGN . Calcaire grossier , miliolitic limestone . ( Chapter 16 . ) Soissonnais sands , or Lits coquilliers , with Nummulites planulata . ( Chapter 16 . ) Claiborne beds of the United States , with Orbitoides and Zeuglodon . ( Chapter 16. ) 9 . LOWER EOCENE . Nummulitic formation of Europe , Asia , etc . ( Chapter 16 . ) BRITISH @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Woolwich and Reading series , fluvio-marine . ( Chapter 16 . ) Thanet sands . ( Chapter 16 . ) FOREIGN . Argile de Londres , near Dunkirk . ( Chapter 16 . ) Argile plastique . ( Chapter 16 . ) Sables de Bracheux . ( Chapter 16 . ) SECONDARY OR MESOZOIC . CRETACEOUS . 10 . UPPER CRETACEOUS . BRITISH . Upper white chalk , with flints . ( Chapter 17 . ) Lower white chalk , without flints . ( Chapter 17 . ) Chalk marl . ( Chapter 17 . ) Chloritic series ( or Upper Greensand ) , fire-stone of Surrey . ( Chapter 17 . ) Gault . ( Chapter 17 . ) Blackdown beds . ( Chapter 17 . ) FOREIGN . Maestricht beds and Faxoe chalk . ( Chapter 17 . ) Pisolitic limestone of France . ( Chapter 17 . ) White chalk of France , Sweden , and Russia . ( Chapter 17 . ) Planer-kalk of Saxony . ( Chapter 17 . ) Sands and clays of Aix-la-Chapelle . ( Chapter 17 . ) Hippurite limestone of South of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ U.S. , sands and marls . ( Chapter 17. ) 11 . LOWER CRETACEOUS OR NEOCOMIAN . BRITISH . Sands of Folkestone , Sandgate , and Hythe . ( Chapter 18 . ) Atherfield clay , with Perna mulleti . ( Chapter 18 . ) Punfield marine beds , with Vicarya lujana . ( Chapter 18 . ) Speeton clay of Flamborough Head and Tealby . ( Chapter 18 . ) Weald clay of Surrey , Kent , and Sussex , fresh-water , with Cypris . ( Chapter 18 . ) Hastings sands . FOREIGN . Neocomian of Neufchatel , and Hils conglomerate of North Germany . ( Chapter 18 . ) Wealden beds of Hanover . ( Chapter 18 . ) OOLITE. 12 . UPPER OOLITE . BRITISH . Upper Purbeck beds , fresh-water . ( Chapter 19 . ) Middle Purbeck , with numerous marsupial quadrupeds , etc . ( Chapter 19 . ) Lower Purbeck , fresh-water , with intercalated dirt-bed . ( Chapter 19 . ) Portland stone and sand . ( Chapter 19 . ) Kimmeridge clay . ( Chapter 19 . ) FOREIGN . Marnes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) Lithographic-stone of Solenhofen , with Archaeopteryx . ( Chapter 19. ) 13 . MIDDLE OOLITE . BRITISH . Coral rag of Berkshire , Wilts , and Yorkshire . ( Chapter 19 . ) Oxford clay , with belemnites and Ammonite . ( Chapter 19 . ) Kelloway rock of Wilts and Yorkshire . ( Chapter 19 . ) FOREIGN . Nerinaean limestone of the Jura . 14 . LOWER OOLITE . BRITISH . Cornbrash and forest marble . ( Chapter 19 . ) Great or Bath oolite of Bradford . ( Chapter 19 . ) Stonesfield slate , with marsupials and Araucaria . ( Chapter 19 . ) Fuller 's earth of Bath . ( Chapter 19 . ) Inferior oolite . ( Chapter 19 . ) LIAS . 15 . LIAS . Upper Lias , argillaceous , with Ammonites striatulus . ( Chapter 20 . ) Shale and limestone , with Ammonites bifrons . ( Chapter 20 . ) Middle Lias or Marlstone series , with zones containing characteristic Ammonites . ( Chapter 20 . ) Lower Lias , also with zones characterised by peculiar Ammonites . ( Chapter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Rhaetic , Penarth or Avicula contorta beds ( beds of passage ) . ( Chapter 21 . ) Keuper or Upper New Red sandstone , etc . ( Chapter 21 . ) Red shales of Cheshire and Lancashire , with rock-salt . ( Chapter 21 . ) Dolomite conglomerate of Bristol ( Chapter 21 . ) FOREIGN . Keuper beds of Germany . ( Chapter 21 . ) St. Cassian or Hallstadt beds , with rich marine fauna . ( Chapter 21 . ) Coal-field of Richmond , Virginia . ( Chapter 21 . ) Chatham coal-field , North Carolina . ( Chapter 21. ) 17 . MIDDLE TRIAS . BRITISH . Wanting . FOREIGN . Muschelkalk of Germany . ( Chapter 21. ) 18 . LOWER TRIAS . BRITISH . Bunter or Lower New Red sandstone of Lancashire and Cheshire . ( Chapter 21 . ) FOREIGN . Bunter-sandstein of Germany . ( Chapter 21 . ) Red sandstone of Connecticut Valley , with footprints of birds and reptiles . ( Chapter 21 . ) PRIMARY OR PALAEOZOIC . PERMIAN . 19 . PERMIAN . BRITISH . Upper Permian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 22 . ) Middle Permian , magnesian limestone , and marl-slate of Durham and Yorkshire , with Protosaurus . ( Chapter 22 . ) Lower Permian sandstones and breccias of Penrith and Dumfriesshire , intercalated . ( Chapter 22 . ) FOREIGN . Dark-coloured shales of Thuringia . ( Chapter 22 . ) Zechstein or Dolomitic limestone . ( Chapter 22 . ) Mergel-schiefer or Kupfer-schiefer . ( Chapter 22 . ) Rothliegendes of Thuringia , with Psaronius . ( Chapter 22 . ) Magnesian limestones , etc. , of Russia . ( Chapter 22 . ) CARBONIFEROUS . 20 . UPPER CARBONIFEROUS . BRITISH . Coal-measures of South Wales , with underclays inclosing Stigmaria . ( Chapter 23 . ) Coal-measures of north and central England . ( Chapter 23 . ) Millstone grit . ( Chapter 23 . ) Yoredale series of Yorkshire . ( Chapter 23 . ) Coal-field of Kilkenny with Labyrinthodont . ( Chapter 23 . ) FOREIGN . Coal-field of Saarbruck , with Archegosaurus . ( Chapter 23 . ) Carboniferous strata of South Joggins , Nova Scotia . ( Chapter 23 . ) Pennsylvania @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . BRITISH . Mountain limestone of Wales and South of England . ( Chapter 24 . ) Same in Ireland . ( Chapter 24 . ) Carboniferous limestone of Scotland alternating with coal-bearing sandstones . ( Chapter 23 . ) Erect trees in volcanic ash in the Island of Arran . ( Chapter 30 . ) FOREIGN . Mountain limestone of Belgium . ( Chapter 24 . ) DEVONIAN OR OLD RED SANDSTONE . 22 . UPPER DEVONIAN . BRITISH . Yellow sandstone of Dura Den , with Holoptychius , etc . ( Chapter 25. ) ; and of Ireland with Anodon Jukesii . ( Chapter 25 . ) Sandstones of Forfarshire and Perthshire , with Holoptychius , etc . ( Chapter 25 . ) Pilton group of North Devon . ( Chapter 25 . ) Petherwyn group of Cornwall , with Clymenia and Cypridina . ( Chapter 25 . ) FOREIGN . Clymenien-kalk and Cypridinen-schiefer of Germany . ( Chapter 25. ) 23 . MIDDLE DEVONIAN . BRITISH . Bituminous schists of Gamrie , Caithness , etc. , with numerous fish . ( Chapter 25 . ) Ilfracombe beds with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Limestones of Torquay , with broad-winged Spirifers . ( Chapter 25 . ) FOREIGN . ( Chapter 25 . ) Eifel limestone , with underlying schists containing Calceola . ( Chapter 25 . ) Devonian strata of Russia . ( Chapter 25. ) 24 . LOWER DEVONIAN . BRITISH . Arbroath paving-stones , with Cephalaspis and Pterygotus . ( Chapter 25 . ) Lower sandstones of Forfarshire , with Pterygotus . ( Chapter 25 . ) Sandstones and slates of the Foreland and Linton . ( Chapter 25 . ) FOREIGN . Oriskany sandstone of Western Canada and New York . ( Chapter 25 . ) Sandstones of Gaspe , with Cephalaspis . ( Chapter 25 . ) SILURIAN . 25 . UPPER SILURIAN . BRITISH . Upper Ludlow formation , Downton sandstone , with bone-bed . ( Chapter 26 . ) Lower Ludlow formation , with oldest known fish remains . ( Chapter 26 . ) Wenlock limestone and shale . ( Chapter 26 . ) Woolhope limestone and grit . ( Chapter 26 . ) Tarannon shales . ( Chapter 26 . ) Beds of passage between Upper and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with Pentamerus oblongus , etc . ( Chapter 26 . ) Lower Llandovery slates . ( Chapter 26 . ) FOREIGN . Niagara limestone , with Calymene , Homalonotus , etc . ( Chapter 26 . ) Clinton group of America , with Pentamerus oblongus , etc . ( Chapter 26 . ) Silurian strata of Russia , with Pentamerus . ( Chapter 26. ) 26 . LOWER SILURIAN . BRITISH . Bala and Caradoc beds . ( Chapter 26 . ) Llandeilo flags . ( Chapter 26 . ) Arenig or Stiper-stones group ( Lower Llandeilo of Murchison . ) ( Chapter 26 . ) FOREIGN . Ungulite or Obolus grit of Russia . ( Chapter 26 . ) Trenton limestone , and other Lower Silurian groups of North America . ( Chapter 26 . ) Lower Silurian of Sweden . ( Chapter 26 . ) CAMBRIAN . 27 . UPPER CAMBRIAN . BRITISH . Tremadoc slates . ( Chapter 27 . ) Lingula flags , with Lingula Davisii . ( Chapter 27 . ) FOREIGN . " Primordial " zone of Bohemia in part , with trilobites of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Alum schists of Sweden and Norway . ( Chapter 27 . ) Potsdam sandstone , with Dikelocephalus and Obolella . ( Chapter 27. ) 28 . LOWER CAMBRIAN . BRITISH . Menevian beds of Wales , with Paradoxides Davidis , etc . ( Chapter 27 . ) Longmynd group , comprising the Harlech grits and Llanberis slates . ( Chapter 27 . ) FOREIGN . Lower portion of Barrande 's " Primordial " zone in Bohemia . ( Chapter 27 . ) Fucoid sandstones of Sweden . ( Chapter 27 . ) Huronian series of Canada ? ( Chapter 27 . ) LAURENTIAN. 29 . UPPER LAURENTIAN . BRITISH . Fundamental gneiss of the Hebrides ? ( Chapter 27 . ) Hypersthene rocks of Skye ? ( Chapter 27 . ) FOREIGN . Labradorite series north of the river St. Lawrence in Canada . ( Chapter 27 . ) Adirondack mountains of New York . ( Chapter 27. ) 30 . LOWER LAURENTIAN . BRITISH . Wanting ? FOREIGN . Beds of gneiss and quartzite , with interstratified limestones , in one of which , 1000 feet thick , occurs a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( Chapter 27 . ) CHAPTER IX . CLASSIFICATION OF TERTIARY FORMATIONS . Order of Succession of Sedimentary Formations . Frequent Unconformability of Strata . Imperfection of the Record . Defectiveness of the Monuments greater in Proportion to their Antiquity . Reasons for studying the newer Groups first . Nomenclature of Formations . Detached Tertiary Formations scattered over Europe . Value of the Shell-bearing Mollusca in Classification . Classification of Tertiary Strata . Eocene , Miocene , and Pliocene Terms explained . By reference to the tables given at the end of the last chapter the reader will see that when the fossiliferous rocks are arranged chronologically , we have first to consider the Post-tertiary and then the Tertiary or Cainozoic formations , and afterwards to pass on to those of older date . ORDER OF SUPERPOSITION . ( FIGURE 86 . Section through Primary ( left ) , Secondary , Tertiary and Post-tertiary ( right ) Strata . 1 . Laurentian. 2 . Cambrian . 3 . Silurian . 4 . Devonian . 5 . Carboniferous . 6 . Permian . 7 . Triassic . 8 . Jurassic . 9 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . 12 . Pliocene . 13 . Post-pliocene. 14 . Recent . Sea . ) The diagram ( Figure 86. ) will show the order of superposition of these deposits , assuming them all to be visible in one continuous section . In nature , as before hinted ( Chapter 6 ) , we have never an opportunity of seeing the whole of them so displayed in a single region ; first , because sedimentary deposition is confined , during any one geological period , to limited areas ; and secondly , because strata , after they have been formed , are liable to be utterly annihilated over wide areas by denudation . But wherever certain members of the series are present , they overlie one another in the order indicated in the diagram , though not always in the exact manner there represented , because some of them repose occasionally in unconformable stratification on others . This mode of superposition has been already explained ( Chapters 5 and 7 ) , where I pointed out that the discordance which implies a considerable lapse of time between two formations in juxtaposition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ species of organic remains . FREQUENT UNCONFORMABILITY OF STRATA . Where the widest gaps appear in the sequence of the fossil forms , as between the Permian and Triassic rocks , or between the Cretaceous and Eocene , examples of such unconformability are very frequent . But they are also met with in some part or other of the world at the junction of almost all the other principal formations , and sometimes the subordinate divisions of any one of the leading groups may be found lying unconformably on another subordinate member of the same  --  the Upper , for example , on the Lower Silurian , or the superior division of the Old Red Sandstone on a lower member of the same , and so forth . Instances of such irregularities in the mode of succession of the strata are the more intelligible the more we extend our survey of the fossiliferous formations , for we are continually bringing to light deposits of intermediate date , which have to be intercalated between those previously known , and which reveal to us a long series of events , of which antecedently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unconformability invariably bears testimony to a lapse of unrepresented time , the conformability of two sets of strata in contact by no means implies that the newer formation immediately succeeded the older one . It simply implies that the ancient rocks were subjected to no movements of such a nature as to tilt , bend , or break them before the more modern formation was superimposed . It does not show that the earth 's crust was motionless in the region in question , for there may have been a gradual sinking or rising , extending uniformly over a large surface , and yet , during such movement , the stratified rocks may have retained their original horizontality of position . There may have been a conversion of a wide area from sea into land and from land into sea , and during these changes of level some strata may have been slowly removed by aqueous action , and after this new strata may be superimposed , differing perhaps in date by thousands of years or centuries , and yet resting conformably on the older set . There may even be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those of the newer , so as to give rise to a passage in the mineral character of the one rock into the other as if there had been no break or interruption in the depositing process . IMPERFECTION OF THE RECORD . Although by the frequent discovery of new sets of intermediate strata the transition from one type of organic remains to another is becoming less and less abrupt , yet the entire series of records appears to the geologists now living far more fragmentary and defective than it seemed to their predecessors half a century ago . The earlier inquirers , as often as they encountered a break in the regular sequence of formations , connected it theoretically with a sudden and violent catastrophe , which had put an end to the regular course of events that had been going on uninterruptedly for ages , annihilating at the same time all or nearly all the organic beings which had previously flourished , after which , order being re-established , a new series of events was initiated . In proportion as our faith in these views grows weaker , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us by geology seem explicable on the hypothesis of gradual and insensible changes , varied only by occasional convulsions , on a scale comparable to that witnessed in historical times ; and in proportion as it is thought possible that former fluctuations in the organic world may be due to the indefinite modifiability of species without the necessity of assuming new and independent acts of creation , the number and magnitude of the gaps which still remain , or the extreme imperfection of the record , become more and more striking , and what we possess of the ancient annals of the earth 's history appears as nothing when contrasted with that which has been lost . When we examine a large area such as Europe , the average as well as the extreme height above the sea attained by the older formations is usually found to exceed that reached by the more modern ones , the primary or palaeozoic rising higher than the secondary , and these in their turn than the tertiary ; while in reference to the three divisions of the tertiary , the lowest or Eocene group @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ again a greater height than the Pliocene formations . Lastly , the post-tertiary deposits , such , at least , as are of marine origin , are most commonly restricted to much more moderate elevations above the sea-level than the tertiary strata . It is also observed that strata , in proportion as they are of newer date , bear the nearest resemblance in mineral character to those which are now in the progress of formation in seas or lakes , the newest of all consisting principally of soft mud or loose sand , in some places full of shells , corals , or other organic bodies , animal or vegetable , in others wholly devoid of such remains . The farther we recede from the present time , and the higher the antiquity of the formations which we examine , the greater are the changes which the sedimentary deposits have undergone . Time , as I have explained in Chapters 5 , 6 , and 7 , has multiplied the effects of condensation by pressure and cementation , and the modification produced by heat , fracture , contortion , upheaval @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been obliterated entirely , or the mineral matter of which they were composed has been removed and replaced by other substances . WHY NEWER GROUPS SHOULD BE STUDIED FIRST . We likewise observe that the older the rocks the more widely do their organic remains depart from the types of the living creation . First , we find in the newer tertiary rocks a few species which no longer exist , mixed with many living ones , and then , as we go farther back , many genera and families at present unknown make their appearance , until we come to strata in which the fossil relics of existing species are nowhere to be detected , except a few of the lowest forms of invertebrate , while some orders of animals and plants wholly unrepresented in the living world begin to be conspicuous . When we study , therefore , the geological records of the earth and its inhabitants , we find , as in human history , the defectiveness and obscurity of the monuments always increasing the remoter the era to which we refer , and the difficulty of determining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enhanced , especially when we are comparing those which were formed simultaneously in very distant regions of the globe . Hence we advance with securer steps when we begin with the study of the geological records of later times , proceeding from the newer to the older , or from the more to the less known . In thus inverting what might at first seem to be the more natural order of historical research , we must bear in mind that each of the periods above enumerated , even the shortest , such as the Post-tertiary , or the Pliocene , Miocene , or Eocene , embrace a succession of events of vast extent , so that to give a satisfactory account of what we already know of any one of them would require many volumes . When , therefore , we approach one of the newer groups before endeavouring to decipher the monuments of an older one , it is like endeavouring to master the history of our own country and that of some contemporary nations , before we enter upon Roman History , or like investigating the annals of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Assyria . NOMENCLATURE . The origin of the terms Primary and Secondary , and the synonymous terms Palaeozoic , and Mesozoic , were explained in Chapter 8 . The Tertiary or Cainozoic strata ( see Chapter 8 ) were so called because they were all posterior in date to the Secondary series , of which last the Chalk of Cretaceous , No. 9 , Figure 86 , constitutes the newest group . The whole of them were at first confounded with the superficial alluviums of Europe ; and it was long before their real extent and thickness , and the various ages to which they belong , were fully recognised . They were observed to occur in patches , some of fresh-water , others of marine origin , their geographical area being usually small as compared to the secondary formations , and their position often suggesting the idea of their having been deposited in different bays , lakes , estuaries , or inland seas , after a large portion of the space now occupied by Europe had already been converted into dry land . The first deposits of this class @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those occurring in the neighbourhood of Paris , described in 1810 by MM . Cuvier and Brongniart . They were ascertained to consist of successive sets of strata , some of marine , others of fresh-water origin , lying one upon the other . The fossil shells and corals were perceived to be almost all of unknown species , and to have in general a near affinity to those now inhabiting warmer seas . The bones and skeletons of land animals , some of them of large size , and belonging to more than forty distinct species , were examined by Cuvier , and declared by him not to agree specifically , nor most of them even generically , with any hitherto observed in the living creation . Strata were soon afterwards brought to light in the vicinity of London , and in Hampshire , which , although dissimilar in mineral composition , were justly inferred by Mr. T. Webster to be of the same age as those of Paris , because the greater number of the fossil shells were specifically identical . For the same reason , rocks found on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at certain points in the North of Italy , were suspected to be of contemporaneous origin . Another important discovery was soon afterwards made by Brocchi in Italy , who investigated the argillaceous and sandy deposits , replete with shells , which form a low range of hills , flanking the Apennines on both sides , from the plains of the Po to Calabria . These lower hills were called by him the Subapennines , and were formed of strata chiefly marine , and newer than those of Paris and London . Another tertiary group occurring in the neighbourhood of Bordeaux and Dax , in the South of France , was examined by M. de Basterot in 1825 , who described and figured several hundred species of shells , which differed for the most part both from the Parisian series and those of the Subapennine hills . It was soon , therefore , suspected that this fauna might belong to a period intermediate between that of the Parisian and Subapennine strata , and it was not long before the evidence of superposition was brought to bear in support of this opinion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , were observed in one district ( the Valley of the Loire ) , to overlie the Parisian formation , and in another ( in Piedmont ) to underlie the Subapennine beds . The first example of these was pointed out in 1829 by M. Desnoyers , who ascertained that the sand and marl of marine origin called faluns , near Tours , in the basin of the Loire , full of sea-shells and corals , rested upon a lacustrine formation , which constitutes the uppermost subdivision of the Parisian group , extending continuously throughout a great table-land intervening between the basin of the Seine and that of the Loire . The other example occurs in Italy , where strata containing many fossils similar to those of Bordeaux were observed by Bonelli and others in the environs of Turin , subjacent to strata belonging to the Subapennine group of Brocchi . VALUE OF TESTACEAN FOSSILS IN CLASSIFICATION . It will be observed that in the foregoing allusions to organic remains , the testacea or the shell-bearing mollusca are selected as the most useful and convenient class for the purposes of general @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ universally distributed through strata of every age than any other organic bodies . Those families of fossils which are of rare and casual occurrence are absolutely of no avail in establishing a chronological arrangement . If we have plants alone in one group of strata and the bones of mammalia in another , we can draw no conclusion respecting the affinity or discordance of the organic beings of the two epochs compared ; and the same may be said if we have plants and vertebrated animals in one series and only shells in another . Although corals are more abundant , in a fossil state , than plants , reptiles , or fish , they are still rare when contrasted with shells , because they are more dependent for their well-being on the constant clearness of the water , and are , therefore , less likely to be included in rocks which endure in consequence of their thickness and the copiousness of sediment which prevailed when they originated . The utility of the testacea is , moreover , enhanced by the circumstance that some forms are proper to the sea , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Rivers scarcely ever fail to carry down into their deltas some land-shells , together with species which are at once fluviatile and lacustrine . By this means we learn what terrestrial , fresh-water , and marine species coexisted at particular eras of the past : and having thus identified strata formed in seas with others which originated contemporaneously in inland lakes , we are then enabled to advance a step farther , and show that certain quadrupeds or aquatic plants , found fossil in lacustrine formations , inhabited the globe at the same period when certain fish , reptiles , and zoophytes lived in the ocean . Among other characters of the molluscous animals , which render them extremely valuable in settling chronological questions in geology , may be mentioned , first , the wide geographical range of many species ; and , secondly , what is probably a consequence of the former , the great duration of species in this class , for they appear to have surpassed in longevity the greater number of the mammalia and fish . Had each species inhabited a very limited space , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the geologist to identify deposits at distant points ; or had they each lasted but for a brief period , they could have thrown no light on the connection of rocks placed far from each other in the chronological , or , as it is often termed , vertical series . CLASSIFICATION OF TERTIARY STRATA . Many authors have divided the European Tertiary strata into three groups  - -  lower , middle , and upper ; the lower comprising the oldest formations of Paris and London before mentioned ; the middle those of Bordeaux and Touraine ; and the upper all those newer than the middle group . In the first edition of the Principles of Geology , I divided the whole of the Tertiary formations into four groups , characterised by the percentage of recent shells which they contained . The lower tertiary strata of London and Paris were thought by M. Deshayes to contain only 3 1/2 per cent of recent species , and were termed Eocene . The middle tertiary of the Loire and Gironde had , according to the specific determinations of the same conchologist , 17 per cent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contained 35 to 50 per cent , and were termed Older Pliocene , while still more recent beds in Sicily , which had from 90 to 95 per cent of species identical with those now living , were called Newer Pliocene . The first of the above terms , Eocene , is derived from eos , dawn , and cainos , recent , because the fossil shells of this period contain an extremely small proportion of living species , which may be looked upon as indicating the dawn of the existing state of the testaceous fauna , no recent species having been detected in the older or secondary rocks . The term Miocene ( from meion , less , and cainos , recent ) is intended to express a minor proportion of recent species ( of testacea ) , the term Pliocene ( from pleion , more , and cainos , recent ) a comparative plurality of the same . It may assist the memory of students to remind them , that the MI-ocene contain a MI-nor proportion , and PL-iocene a comparative PL-urality of recent species ; and that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ origin of the strata . It has sometimes been objected to this nomenclature that certain species of infusoria found in the chalk are still existing , and , on the other hand , the Miocene and Older Pliocene deposits often contain the remains of mammalia , reptiles , and fish , exclusively of extinct species . But the reader must bear in mind that the terms Eocene , Miocene , and Pliocene were originally invented with reference purely to conchological data , and in that sense have always been and are still used by me . Since the year 1830 the number of known shells , both recent and fossil , has largely increased , and their identification has been more accurately determined . Hence some modifications have been required in the classifications founded on less perfect materials . The Eocene , Miocene , and Pliocene periods have been made to comprehend certain sets of strata of which the fossils do not always conform strictly in the proportion of recent to extinct species with the definitions first given by me , or which are implied in the etymology of those terms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Post-pliocene Periods . Terms defined . Formations of the Recent Period . Modern littoral Deposits containing Works of Art near Naples . Danish Peat and Shell-mounds . Swiss Lake-dwellings . Periods of Stone , Bronze , and Iron . Post-pliocene Formations . Coexistence of Man with extinct Mammalia . Reindeer Period of South of France . Alluvial Deposits of Paleolithic Age . Higher and Lower-level Valley-gravels . Loess or Inundation-mud of the Nile , Rhine , etc . Origin of Caverns . Remains of Man and extinct Quadrupeds in Cavern Deposits . Cave of Kirkdale . Australian Cave-breccias . Geographical Relationship of the Provinces of living Vertebrata and those of extinct Post-pliocene Species . Extinct struthious Birds of New Zealand . Climate of the Post-pliocene Period . Comparative Longevity of Species in the Mammalia and Testacea . Teeth of Recent and Post-pliocene Mammalia . We have seen in the last chapter that the uppermost or newest strata are called Post-tertiary , as being more modern than the Tertiary . It will also be observed that the Post-tertiary formations are divided into two subordinate groups : the Recent , and Post-pliocene . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as well as the shells are identical with species now living : whereas in the Post-pliocene , the shells being all of living forms , a part , and often a considerable part , of the mammalia belonged to extinct species . To this nomenclature it may be objected that the term Post-pliocene should in strictness include all geological monuments posterior in date to the Pliocene ; but when I have occasion to speak of the whole collectively , I shall call them Post-tertiary , and reserve the term Post-pliocene for the older Post-tertiary formations , while the Upper or newer ones will be called " Recent . " Cases will occur where it may be scarcely possible to draw the boundary line between the Recent and Post-pliocene deposits ; and we must expect these difficulties to increase rather than diminish with every advance in our knowledge , and in proportion as gaps are filled up in the series of records . RECENT PERIOD . It was stated in the sixth chapter , when I treated of denudation , that the dry land , or that part of the earth 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or seas , is generally wasting away by the incessant action of rain and rivers , and in some cases by the undermining and removing power of waves and tides on the sea-coast . But the rate of waste is very unequal , since the level and gently sloping lands , where they are protected by a continuous covering of vegetation , escape nearly all wear and tear , so that they may remain for ages in a stationary condition , while the removal of matter is constantly widening and deepening the intervening ravines and valleys . The materials , both fine and coarse , carried down annually by rivers from the higher regions to the lower , and deposited in successive strata in the basins of seas and lakes , must be of enormous volume . We are always liable to underrate their magnitude , because the accumulation of strata is going on out of sight . There are , however , causes at work which , in the course of centuries , tend to render visible these modern formations , whether of marine or lacustrine origin . For a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a change of level , some areas rising and others sinking at the rate of a few inches , or a few feet , perhaps sometimes yards , in a century ; so that spaces which were once subaqueous are gradually converted into land , and others which were high and dry become submerged . In consequence of such movements we find in certain regions , as in Cashmere , for example , where the mountains are often shaken by earthquakes , deposits which were formed in lakes in the historical period , but through which rivers have now cut deep and wide channels . In lacustrine strata thus intersected , works of art and fresh-water shells are seen . In other districts on the borders of the sea , usually at very moderate elevations above its level , raised beaches occur , or marine littoral deposits , such as those in which , on the borders of the Bay of Baiae , near Naples , the well-known temple of Serapis was imbedded . In that case the date of the monument buried in the marine strata is ascertainable , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of human workmanship is uncertain , as in the estuary of the Clyde at Glasgow , where many canoes have been exhumed , with other works of art , all assignable to some part of the Recent Period . DANISH PEAT AND SHELL-MOUNDS OR KITCHEN-MIDDENS . Sometimes we obtain evidence , without the aid of a change of level , of events which took place in pre-historic times . The combined labours , for example , of the antiquary , zoologist , and botanist have brought to light many monuments of the early inhabitants buried in peat-mosses in Denmark . Their geological age is determined by the fact that , not only the contemporaneous fresh-water and land shells , but all the quadrupeds , found in the peat , agree specifically with those now inhabiting the same districts , or which are known to have been indigenous in Denmark within the memory of man . In the lower beds of peat ( a deposit varying from 20 to 30 feet in thickness ) , weapons of stone accompany trunks of the Scotch fir , Pinus sylvestris . This peat may be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sir John Lubbock proposed the name of " Neolithic " in contradistinction to a still older era , termed by him " Paleolithic , " and which will be described in the sequel . ( Sir John Lubbock Pre-historic Times page 3 1865 . ) In the higher portions of the same Danish bogs , bronze implements are associated with trunks and acorns of the common oak . It appears that the pine has never been a native of Denmark in historical times , and it seems to have given place to the oak about the time when articles and instruments of bronze superseded those of stone . It also appears that , at a still later period , the oak itself became scarce , and was nearly supplanted by the beech , a tree which now flourishes luxuriantly in Denmark . Again , at the still later epoch when the beech-tree abounded , tools of iron were introduced , and were gradually substituted for those of bronze . On the coasts of the Danish islands in the Baltic , certain mounds , called in those countries " Kjokken-modding , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the castaway shells of the oyster , cockle , periwinkle , and other eatable kinds of molluscs . The mounds are from three to ten feet high , and from 100 to 1000 feet in their longest diameter . They greatly resemble heaps of shells formed by the Red Indians of North America along the eastern shores of the United States . In the old refuse-heaps , recently studied by the Danish antiquaries and naturalists with great skill and diligence , no implements of metal have ever been detected . All the knives , hatchets , and other tools , are of stone , horn , bone , or wood . With them are often intermixed fragments of rude pottery , charcoal and cinders , and the bones of quadrupeds on which the rude people fed . These bones belong to wild species still living in Europe , though some of them , like the beaver , have long been extirpated in Denmark . The only animal which they seem to have domesticated was the dog . As there is an entire absence of metallic tools , these refuse-heaps are referred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which immediately preceded in Denmark the age of bronze . It appears that a race more advanced in civilisation , armed with weapons of that mixed metal , invaded Scandinavia , and ousted the aborigines . LACUSTRINE HABITATIONS OF SWITZERLAND . In Switzerland a different class of monuments , illustrating the successive ages of stone , bronze , and iron , has been of late years investigated with great success , and especially since 1854 , in which year Dr. F. Keller explored near the shore at Meilen , in the bottom of the lake of Zurich , the ruins of an old village , originally built on numerous wooden piles , driven , at some unknown period , into the muddy bed of the lake . Since then a great many other localities , more than a hundred and fifty in all , have been detected of similar pile-dwellings , situated near the borders of the Swiss lakes , at points where the depth of water does not exceed 15 feet . ( Bulletin de la Societie Vaudoise des Sciences Nat . tome 6 Lausanne 1860 ; and Antiquity of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mud in such cases is filled with various articles , many hundreds of them being often dredged up from a very limited area . Thousands of piles , decayed at their upper extremities , are often met with still firmly fixed in the mud . As the ages of stone , bronze , and iron merely indicate successive stages of civilisation , they may all have coexisted at once in different parts of the globe , and even in contiguous regions , among nations having little intercourse with each other . To make out , therefore , a distinct chronological series of monuments is only possible when our observations are confined to a limited district , such as Switzerland . The relative antiquity of the pile-dwellings , which belong respectively to the ages of stone and bronze , is clearly illustrated by the associations of the tools with certain groups of animal remains . Where the tools are of stone , the castaway bones which served for the food of the ancient people are those of deer , the wild boar , and wild ox , which abounded when society was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ later or bronze epoch were chiefly those of the domestic ox , goat , and pig , indicating progress in civilisation . Some villages of the stone age are of later date than others , and exhibit signs of an improved state of the arts . Among their relics are discovered carbonised grains of wheat and barley , and pieces of bread , proving that the cultivation of cereals had begun . In the same settlements , also , cloth , made of woven flax and straw , has been detected . The pottery of the bronze age in Switzerland is of a finer texture , and more elegant in form , than that of the age of stone . At Nidau , on the lake of Bienne , articles of iron have also been discovered , so that this settlement was evidently not abandoned till that metal had come into use . At La Thene , in the northern angle of the lake of Neufchatel , a great many articles of iron have been obtained , which in form and ornamentation are entirely different both from those of the bronze @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Celtic coins have also been found there by MM . Schwab and Desor . They agree in character with remains , including many iron swords , which have been found at Tiefenau , near Berne , in ground supposed to have been a battle-field ; and their date appears to have been anterior to the great Roman invasion of Northern Europe , though perhaps not long before that event . ( Sir J. Lubbock 's Lecture , Royal Institution February 27 , 1863 . ) Coins , which sometimes occur in deposits of the age of iron , have never yet been found in formations of the ages of bronze or stone . The period of bronze must have been one of foreign commerce , as tin , which enters into this metallic mixture in the proportion of about ten per cent to the copper , was obtained by the ancients chiefly from Cornwall . ( Diodorus 5 , 21 , 22 and Sir H. James Note on Block of Tin dredged up in Falmouth Harbour . Royal Institution of Cornwall 1863 . ) Very few human bones of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or in the Swiss lake-dwellings , and this scarcity is generally attributed by archaeologists to the custom of burning the dead , which prevailed in the age of bronze . POST-PLIOCENE PERIOD . From the foregoing observations we may infer that the ages of iron and bronze in Northern and Central Europe were preceded by a stone age , the Neolithic , referable to that division of the post-tertiary epoch which I have called Recent , when the mammalia as well as the other organic remains accompanying the stone implements were of living species . But memorials have of late been brought to light of a still older age of stone , for which , as above stated , the name Paleolithic has been proposed , when man was contemporary in Europe with the elephant and rhinoceros , and various other animals , of which many of the most conspicuous have long since died out . REINDEER PERIOD IN SOUTH OF FRANCE . In the larger number of the caves of Europe , as for example in those of England , Belgium , Germany , and many parts of France @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this oldest division of the age of stone , or that to which belongs the drift of Amiens and Abbeville presently to be mentioned , containing flint implements of a very antique type . But there are some caves in the departments of Dordogne , Aude , and other parts of the south of France , which are believed by M. Lartet to be of intermediate date between the Paleolithic and Neolithic periods . To this intermediate era M. Lartet gave , in 1863 , the name of the " reindeer period , " because vast quantities of the bones and horns of that deer have been met with in the French caverns . In some cases separate plates of molars of the mammoth , and several teeth of the great Irish deer , Cervus megaceros , and of the cave-lion , Felis spelaea , have been found mixed up with cut and carved bones of reindeer . On one of these sculptured bones in the cave of Perigord , a rude representation of the mammoth , with its long curved tusks and covering of wool , occurs , which is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fact that the early inhabitants of these caves must have seen this species of elephant still living in France . The presence of the marmot , as well as the reindeer and some other northern animals , in these caverns seems to imply a colder climate than that of the Swiss lake-dwellings , in which no remains of reindeer have as yet been discovered . The absence of this last in the old lacustrine habitations of Switzerland is the more significant , because in a cave in the neighbourhood of the lake of Geneva , namely , that of Mont Saleve , bones of the reindeer occur with flint implements similar to those of the caverns of Dordogne and Perigord . The state of the arts , as exemplified by the instruments found in these caverns of the reindeer period , is somewhat more advanced than that which characterises the tools of the Amiens drift , but is nevertheless more rude than that of the Swiss lake-dwellings . No metallic articles occur , and the stone hatchets are not ground after the fashion of celts ; the needles of bone are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with consummate skill . The formations above alluded to , which are as yet but imperfectly known , may be classed as belonging to the close of the Paleolithic era , of the monuments of which I am now about to treat . ALLUVIAL DEPOSITS OF THE PALEOLITHIC AGE . ( FIGURE 87 . Recent and Post-pliocene alluvial deposits . 1 . Peat of the recent period . 2 . Gravel of modern river . 2 ' . Loam of brick-earth ( loess ) of same age as 2 , formed by inundations of the river . 3 . Lower-level valley-gravel with extinct mammalia ( Post-pliocene ) . 3 ' . Loam of same age . 4 . Higher-level valley-gravel ( Post-pliocene ) . 4 ' . Loam of same age . 5 . Upland gravel of various kinds and periods , consisting in some places of unstratified boulder clay or glacial drift . 6 . Older rocks . ) The alluvial and marine deposits of the Paleolithic age , the earliest to which any vestiges of man have yet been traced back , belong to a time when the physical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now prevailing . In the Neolithic period , the valleys and rivers coincided almost entirely with those by which the present drainage of the land is effected , and the peat-mosses were the same as those now growing . The situation of the shell-mounds and lake-dwellings above alluded to is such as to imply that the topography of the districts where they are observed has not subsequently undergone any material alteration . Whereas we no sooner examine the Post-pliocene formations , in which the remains of so many extinct mammalia are found , than we at once perceive a more decided discrepancy between the former and present outline of the surface . Since those deposits originated , changes of considerable magnitude have been effected in the depth and width of many valleys , as also in the direction of the superficial and subterranean drainage , and , as is manifest near the sea-coast , in the relative position of land and water . In Figure 87 an ideal section is given , illustrating the different position which the Recent and Post-pliocene alluvial deposits occupy in many European valleys . The peat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part of the modern alluvial plain , in parts of which gravel No. 2 of the recent period is seen . Over this gravel the loam or fine sediment 2 ' has in many places been deposited by the river during floods which covered nearly the whole alluvial plain . No. 3 represents an older alluvium , composed of sand and gravel , formed before the valley had been excavated to its present depth . It contains the remains of fluviatile shells of living species associated with the bones of mammalia , in part of recent , and in part of extinct species . Among the latter , the mammoth ( E. primigenius ) and the Siberian rhinoceros ( R. tichorhinus ) are the most common in Europe . No. 3 ' is a remnant of the loam or brick-earth by which No. 3 was overspread . No. 4 is a still older and more elevated terrace , similar in its composition and organic remains to No. 3 , and covered in like manner with its inundation-mud , 4 ' . Sometimes the valley-gravels of older date are entirely missing , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more than two , marking as many successive stages in the excavation of the valley . They usually occur at heights varying from 10 to 100 feet , sometimes on the right and sometimes on the left side of the existing river-plain , but rarely in great strength on exactly opposite sides of the valley . Among the genera of extinct quadrupeds most frequently met with in England , France , Germany , and other parts of Europe , are the elephant , rhinoceros , hippopotamus , horse , great Irish deer , bear , tiger , and hyaena . In the peat , No. 1 ( Figure 87 ) , and in the more modern gravel and silt ( No. 2 ) , works of art of the ages of iron and bronze , and of the later or Neolithic stone period , already described , are met with . In the more ancient or Paleolithic gravels , 3 and 4 , there have been found of late years in several valleys in France and England  - -  as , for example , in those of the Seine and Somme , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ implements of a rude type , showing that man coexisted in those districts with the mammoth and other extinct quadrupeds of the genera above enumerated . In 1847 , M. Boucher de Perthes observed in an ancient alluvium at Abbeville , in Picardy , the bones of extinct mammalia associated in such a manner with flint implements of a rude type as to lead him to infer that both the organic remains and the works of art were referable to one and the same period . This inference was soon after confirmed by Mr. Prestwich , who found in 1859 a flint tool in situ in the same stratum at Amiens that contained the remains of extinct mammalia . The flint implements found at Abbeville and Amiens are most of them considered to be hatchets and spear-heads , and are different from those commonly called " celts . " These celts , so often found in the recent formations , have a more regular oblong shape , the result of grinding , by which also a sharp edge has been given to them . The Abbeville tools found in gravel at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Figure 87 , in which bones of the elephant , rhinoceros , and other extinct mammalia occur , are always unground , having evidently been brought into their present form simply by the chipping off of fragments of flint by repeated blows , such as could be given by a stone hammer . Some of them are oval , others of a spear-headed form , no two exactly alike , and yet the greater number of each kind are obviously fashioned after the same general pattern . Their outer surface is often white , the original black flint having been discoloured and bleached by exposure to the air , or by the action of acids , as they lay in the gravel . They are most commonly stained of the same ochreous colour as the flints of the gravel in which they are imbedded . Occasionally their antiquity is indicated not only by their colour but by superficial incrustations of carbonate of lime , or by dendrites formed of oxide of iron and manganese . The edges also of most of them are worn , sometimes by having been used as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ old river 's bed . They are met with not only in the lower-level gravels , as in No. 3 , Figure 87 , but also in No. 4 , or the higher gravels , as at St. Acheul , in the suburbs of Amiens , where the old alluvium lies at an elevation of about 100 feet above the level of the river Somme . At both levels fluviatile and land-shells are met with in the loam as well as in the gravel , but there are no marine shells associated , except at Abbeville , in the lowest part of the gravel , near the sea , and a few feet only above the present high-water mark . Here with fossil shells of living species are mingled the bones of Elephas primigenius and E. antiquus , Rhinoceros tichorhinus , Hippopotamus , Felis spelaea , Hyaena spelaea , reindeer , and many others , the bones accompanying the flint implements in such a manner as to show that both were buried in the old alluvium at the same period . Nearly the entire skeleton of a rhinoceros was found at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Abbeville , the bones being in such juxtaposition as to show that the cartilage must have held them together at the time of their inhumation . The general absence here and elsewhere of human bones from gravel and sand in which flint tools are discovered , may in some degree be due to the present limited extent of our researches . But it may also be presumed that when a hunter population , always scanty in numbers , ranged over this region , they were too wary to allow themselves to be overtaken by the floods which swept away many herbivorous animals from the low river-plains where they may have been pasturing or sleeping . Beasts of prey prowling about the same alluvial flats in search of food may also have been surprised more readily than the human tenant of the same region , to whom the signs of a coming tempest were better known . INUNDATION-MUD OF RIVERS .  --  BRICK-EARTH.  --  FLUVIATILE LOAM , OR LOESS . As a general rule , the fluviatile alluvia of different ages ( Nos. 2 , 3 , 4 , Figure 87 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ portions , and of fine silt or loam in their upper parts . For rivers are constantly shifting their position in the valley-plain , encroaching gradually on one bank , near which there is deep water , and deserting the other or opposite side , where the channel is growing shallower , being destined eventually to be converted into land . Where the current runs strongest , coarse gravel is swept along , and where its velocity is slackened , first sand , and then only the finest mud , is thrown down . A thin film of this fine sediment is spread , during floods , over a wide area , on one , or sometimes on both sides , of the main stream , often reaching as far as the base of the bluffs or higher grounds which bound the valley . Of such a description are the well-known annual deposits of the Nile , to which Egypt owes its fertility . So thin are they , that the aggregate amount accumulated in a century is said rarely to exceed five inches , although in the course of thousands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bottom not having been reached by borings extending to a depth of 60 feet towards the central parts of the valley . Everywhere it consists of the same homogeneous mud , destitute of stratification  --  the only signs of successive accumulation being where the Nile has silted up its channel , or where the blown sands of the Libyan desert have invaded the plain , and given rise to alternate layers of sand and mud . In European river-loams we occasionally observe isolated pebbles and angular pieces of stone which have been floated by ice to the places where they now occur ; but no such coarse materials are met with in the plains of Egypt . In some parts of the valley of the Rhine the accumulation of similar loam , called in Germany " loess , " has taken place on an enormous scale . Its colour is yellowish-grey , and very homogeneous ; and Professor Bischoff has ascertained , by analysis , that it agrees in composition with the mud of the Nile . Although for the most part unstratified , it betrays in some places marks of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in its lower part where it rests on subjacent gravel and sand which alternate with each other near the junction . About a sixth part of the whole mass is composed of carbonate of lime , and there is usually an intermixture of fine quartzose and micaceous sand . ( FIGURE 88 . Succinea elongata . ) Although this loam of the Rhine is unsolidified , it usually terminates where it has been undermined by running water in a vertical cliff , from the face of which shells of terrestrial , fresh-water and amphibious mollusks project in relief . These shells do not imply the permanent sojourn of a body of fresh water on the spot , for the most aquatic of them , the Succinea , inhabits marshes and wet grassy meadows . The Succinea elongata ( or S. oblongata ) , Figure 88 , is very characteristic both of the loess of the Rhine and of some other European river-loams . ( FIGURE 89 . Pupa muscorum ( Linn . ) . ) ( FIGURE 90 . Helix hispida ( Linn. ) ( plebeia ) . ) Among the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 90 , and Pupa muscorum , Figure 89 , are very common . Both the terrestrial and aquatic shells are of most fragile and delicate structure , and yet they are almost invariably perfect and uninjured . They must have been broken to pieces had they been swept along by a violent inundation . Even the colour of some of the land-shells , as that of Helix nemoralis , is occasionally preserved . In parts of the valley of the Rhine , between Bingen and Basle , the fluviatile loam or loess now under consideration is several hundred feet thick , and contains here and there throughout that thickness land and amphibious shells . As it is seen in masses fringing both sides of the great plain , and as occasionally remnants of it occur in the centre of the valley , forming hills several hundred feet in height , it seems necessary to suppose , first , a time when it slowly accumulated ; and secondly , a later period , when large portions of it were removed , or when the original valley , which had been partially filled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been brought about by a great movement of oscillation , consisting first of a general depression of the land , and then of a gradual re-elevation of the same . The amount of continental depression which first took place in the interior , must be imagined to have exceeded that of the region near the sea , in which case the higher part of the great valley would have its alluvial plain gradually raised by an accumulation of sediment , which would only cease when the subsidence of the land was at an end . If the direction of the movement was then reversed , and , during the re-elevation of the continent , the inland region nearest the mountains should rise more rapidly than that near the coast , the river would acquire a denuding power sufficient to enable it to sweep away gradually nearly all the loam and gravel with which parts of its basin had been filled up . Terraces and hillocks of mud and sand would then alone remain to attest the various levels at which the river had thrown down and afterwards removed alluvial matter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ANIMALS . In England , and in almost all countries where limestone rocks abound , caverns are found , usually consisting of cavities of large dimensions , connected together by low , narrow , and sometimes torturous galleries or tunnels . These subterranean vaults are usually filled in part with mud , pebbles , and breccia , in which bones occur belonging to the same assemblage of animals as those characterising the Post-pliocene alluvia above described . Some of these bones are referable to extinct and others to living species , and they are occasionally intermingled , as in the valley-gravels , with implements of one or other of the great divisions of the stone age , and these are not unfrequently accompanied by human bones , which are much more common in cavern deposits than in valley-alluvium . Each suite of caverns , and the passages by which they communicate the one with the other , afford memorials to the geologist of successive phases through which they must have passed . First , there was a period when the carbonate of lime was carried out gradually by springs ; secondly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organic and inorganic debris into the subterranean hollows previously formed ; and thirdly , there were such changes in the configuration of the region as caused the engulfed rivers to be turned into new channels , and springs to be dried up , after which the cave-mud , breccia , gravel , and fossil bones would bear the same kind of relation to the existing drainage of the country as the older valley-drifts with their extinct mammalian remains and works of art bear to the present rivers and alluvial plains . The quarrying away of large masses of Carboniferous and Devonian limestone , near Liege , in Belgium , has afforded the geologist magnificent sections of some of these caverns , and the former communication of cavities in the interior of the rocks with the old surface of the country by means of vertical or oblique fissures , has been demonstrated in places where it would not otherwise have been suspected , so completely have the upper extremities of these fissures been concealed by superficial drift , while their lower ends , which extended into the roofs of the caves , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stalactite is thus explained by the eminent chemist Liebig . Mould or humus , being acted on by moisture and air , evolves carbonic acid , which is dissolved by rain . The rain-water , thus impregnated , permeates the porous limestone , dissolves a portion of it , and afterwards , when the excess of carbonic acid evaporates in the caverns , parts with the calcareous matter , and forms stalactite . Even while caverns are still liable to be occasionally flooded such calcareous incrustations accumulate , but it is generally when they are no longer in the line of drainage that a solid floor of hard stalagmite is formed on the bottom . The late Dr. Schmerling examined forty caves near Liege , and found in all of them the remains of the same fauna , comprising the mammoth , tichorhine rhinoceros , cave-bear , cave-hyaena , cave-lion , and many others , some of extinct and some of living species , and in all of them flint implements . In four or five caves only parts of human skeletons were met with , comprising sometimes skulls with a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ skeleton except the skull . In one of the caves , that of Engihoul , where Schmerling had found the remains of at least three human individuals , they were mingled in such a manner with bones of extinct mammalia , as to leave no doubt on his mind ( in 1833 ) of man having co-existed with them . In 1860 , Professor Malaise , of Liege , explored with me this same cave of Engihoul , and beneath a hard floor of stalagmite we found mud full of bones of extinct and recent animals , such as Schmerling had described , and my companion , persevering in his researches after I had returned to England , extracted from the same deposit two human lower jaw-bones retaining their teeth . The skulls from these Belgian caverns display no marked deviation from the normal European type of the present day . The careful investigations carried on by Dr. Falconer , Mr. Pengelly , and others , in the Brixham cave near Torquay , in 1858 , demonstrated that flint knives were there imbedded in such a manner in loam underlying a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an inhabitant of that region when the cave-bear and other members of the ancient post-pliocene fauna were also in existence . The absence of gnawed bones had led Dr. Schmerling to infer that none of the Belgian caves which he explored had served as the dens of wild beasts ; but there are many caves in Germany and England which have certainly been so inhabited , especially by the extinct hyaena and bear . A fine example of a hyaena 's den was afforded by the cave of Kirkdale , so well described by the late Dr. Buckland in his Reliquiae Diluvianae . In that cave , above twenty-five miles north-north-east of York , the remains of about 300 hyaenas , belonging to individuals of every age , were detected . The species ( Hyaena spelaea ) has been considered by palaeontologists as extinct ; it was larger than the fierce Hyaena crocuta of South Africa , which it closely resembled , and of which it is regarded by Mr. Boyd Dawkins as a variety . Dr. Buckland , after carefully examining the spot , proved that the hyaenas must have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their dung , which , as in the case of the living hyaena , is of nearly the same composition as bone , and almost as durable . In the cave were found the remains of the ox , young elephant , hippopotamus , rhinoceros , horse , bear , wolf , hare , water-rat , and several birds . All the bones have the appearance of having been broken and gnawed by the teeth of the hyaenas ; and they occur confusedly mixed in loam or mud , or dispersed through a crust of stalagmite which covers it . In these and many other cases it is supposed that portions of herbivorous quadrupeds have been dragged into caverns by beasts of prey , and have served as their food  --  an opinion quite consistent with the known habits of the living hyaena . AUSTRALIAN CAVE-BRECCIAS . Ossiferous breccias are not confined to Europe , but occur in all parts of the globe ; and those discovered in fissures and caverns in Australia correspond closely in character with what has been called the bony breccia of the Mediterranean , in which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by a red ochreous cement . Some of these caves were examined by the late Sir T. Mitchell in the Wellington Valley , about 210 miles west of Sidney , on the river Bell , one of the principal sources of the Macquarie , and on the Macquarie itself . The caverns often branch off in different directions through the rock , widening and contracting their dimensions , and the roofs and floors are covered with stalactite . The bones are often broken , but do not seem to be water-worn . In some places they lie imbedded in loose earth , but they are usually included in a breccia . The remains belong to marsupial animals . Among the most abundant are those of the kangaroo , of which there are four species , while others belong to the genera Phascolomys , the wombat ; Dasyurus , the ursine opossum ; Phalangista , the vulpine opossum ; and Hypsiprymnus , the kangaroo-rat . ( FIGURE 91 . Part of lower jaw of Macropus atlas . Owen . A young individual of an extinct species . a . Permanent false molar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lower jaw of largest living species of kangaroo . ( Macropus major . ) ) In the fossils above enumerated , several species are larger than the largest living ones of the same genera now known in Australia . Figure 91 of the right side of a lower jaw of a kangaroo ( Macropus atlas , Owen ) will at once be seen to exceed in magnitude the corresponding part of the largest living kangaroo , which is represented in Figure 92 . In both these specimens part of the substance of the jaw has been broken open , so as to show the permanent false molar ( a , Figure 91 ) , concealed in the socket . From the fact of this molar not having been cut , we learn that the individual was young , and had not shed its first teeth . The reader will observe that all these extinct quadrupeds of Australia belong to the marsupial family , or , in other words , that they are referable to the same peculiar type of organisation which now distinguishes the Australian mammalia from those of other parts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pointing to a general law deducible from the fossil vertebrate and invertebrate animals of times immediately antecedent to our own , namely , that the present geographical distribution of organic FORMS dates back to a period anterior to the origin of existing SPECIES ; in other words , the limitation of particular genera or families of quadrupeds , mollusca , etc. , to certain existing provinces of land and sea , began before the larger part of the species now contemporary with man had been introduced into the earth . Professor Owen , in his excellent " History of British Fossil Mammals , " has called attention to this law , remarking that the fossil quadrupeds of Europe and Asia differ from those of Australia or South America . We do not find , for example , in the Europaeo-Asiatic province fossil kangaroos , or armadillos , but the elephant , rhinoceros , horse , bear , hyaena , beaver , hare , mole , and others , which still characterise the same continent . In like manner , in the Pampas of South America the skeletons of Megatherium , Megalonyx @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other extinct forms , are analogous to the living sloth , armadillo , cavy , capybara , and llama . The fossil quadrumana , also associated with some of these forms in the Brazilian caves , belong to the Platyrrhine family of monkeys , now peculiar to South America . That the extinct fauna of Buenos Ayres and Brazil was very modern has been shown by its relation to deposits of marine shells , agreeing with those now inhabiting the Atlantic . The law of geographical relationship above alluded to , between the living vertebrata of every great zoological province and the fossils of the period immediately antecedent , even where the fossil species are extinct , is by no means confined to the mammalia . New Zealand , when first examined by Europeans , was found to contain no indigenous land quadrupeds , no kangaroos , or opossums , like Australia ; but a wingless bird abounded there , the smallest living representative of the ostrich family , called the Kiwi by the natives ( Apteryx ) . In the fossils of the Post-pliocene period in this same island , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wombats , and the rest ; but in their place a prodigious number of well-preserved specimens of gigantic birds of the struthious order , called by Owen Dinornis and Palapteryx , which are entombed in superficial deposits . These genera comprehended many species , some of which were four , some seven , others nine , and others eleven feet in height ! It seems doubtful whether any contemporary mammalia shared the land with this population of gigantic feathered bipeds . Mr. Darwin , when describing the recent and fossil mammalia of South America , has dwelt much on the wonderful relationship of the extinct to the living types in that part of the world , inferring from such geographical phenomena that the existing species are all related to the extinct ones which preceded them by a bond of common descent . CLIMATE OF THE POST-PLIOCENE PERIOD . The evidence as to the climate of Europe during this epoch is somewhat conflicting . The fluviatile and land-shells are all of existing species , but their geographical range has not always been the same as at present . Some , for example @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Norway and Finland , probably implying that the Post-pliocene climate of Britain was colder , especially in the winter . So also the reindeer and the musk-ox ( Ovibos moschatus ) , now inhabitants of the Arctic regions , occur fossil in the valleys of the Thames and Avon , and also in France and Germany , accompanied in most places by the mammoth and the woolly rhinoceros . At Grays in Essex , on the other hand , another species both of elephant and rhinoceros occurs , together with a hippopotamus and the Cyrena fluminalis , a shell now extinct in Europe but still an inhabitant of the Nile and some Asiatic rivers . With it occurs the Unio littoralis , now living in the Seine and Loire . In the valley of the Somme flint tools have been found associated with Hippopotamus major and Cyrena fluminalis in the lower-level Post-pliocene gravels ; while in the higher-level ( and more ancient ) gravels similar tools are more abundant , and are associated with the bones of the mammoth and other Post-pliocene quadrupeds indicative of a colder climate . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and winter migrations rather than of a general change of temperature . Instead of imagining that the hippopotamus lived all the year round with the musk-ox and lemming , we may rather suppose that the apparently conflicting evidence may be due to the place of our observations being near the boundary line of a northern and southern fauna , either of which may have advanced or receded during comparatively slight and temporary fluctuations of climate . There may then have been a continuous land communication between England and the North of Siberia , as well as in an opposite direction with Africa , then united to Southern Europe . In drift at Fisherton , near Salisbury , thirty feet above the river Wiley , the Greenland lemming and a new species of the Arctic genus Spermophilus have been found , along with the mammoth , reindeer , cave-hyaena , and other mammalia suited to a cold climate . A flint implement was taken out from beneath the bones of the mammoth . In a higher and older deposit in the vicinity , flint tools like those of Amiens have been discovered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ found accompanying flint knives or hatchets in such a way as to imply their coexistence with man ; and we have thus the concurrent testimony of several classes of geological facts to the vast antiquity of the human race . In the first place , the disappearance of a great variety of species of wild animals from every part of a wide continent must have required a vast period for its accomplishment ; yet this took place while man existed upon the earth , and was completed before that early period when the Danish shell-mounds were formed or the oldest of the Swiss lake-dwellings constructed . Secondly , the deepening and widening of valleys , indicated by the position of the river gravels at various heights , implies an amount of change of which that which has occurred during the historical period forms a scarcely perceptible part . Thirdly , the change in the course of rivers which once flowed through caves now removed from any line of drainage , and the formation of solid floors of stalagmite , must have required a great lapse of time . Lastly , ages @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regions to such an extent as completely to alter the geographical distribution of many mammalia as well as land and fresh-water shells . The 3000 or 4000 years of the historical period does not furnish us with any appreciable measure for calculating the number of centuries which would suffice for such a series of changes , which are by no means of a local character , but have operated over a considerable part of Europe . RELATIVE LONGEVITY OF SPECIES IN THE MAMMALIA AND TESTACEA . I called attention in 1830 to the fact , which had not at that time attracted notice , that the association in the Post-pliocene deposits of shells , exclusively of living species , with many extinct quadrupeds betokened a longevity of species in the testacea far exceeding that in the mammalia . ( Principles of Geology 1st edition volume 3 page 140 . ) Subsequent researches seem to show that this greater duration of the same specific forms in the class mollusca is dependent on a still more general law , namely , that the lower the grade of animals , or the greater the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in general in their specific characters throughout vast periods of time . Not only have the invertebrata , as shown by geological data , altered at a less rapid rate than the vertebrata , but if we take one of the classes of the former , as for example the mollusca , we find those of more simple structure to have varied at a slower rate than those of a higher and more complex organisation ; the Brachiopoda , for example , more slowly than the lamellibranchiate bivalves , while the latter have been more persistent than the univalves , whether gasteropoda or cephalopoda . In like manner the specific identity of the characters of the foraminifera , which are among the lowest types of the invertebrata , has outlasted that of the mollusca in an equally decided manner . TEETH OF POST-PLIOCENE MAMMALIA . To those who have never studied comparative anatomy , it may seem scarcely credible that a single bone taken from any part of the skeleton may enable a skilful osteologist to distinguish , in many cases , the genus , and sometimes the species , of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aspire to such knowledge , which must be the result of long practice and study , they will nevertheless derive great advantage from learning , what is comparatively an easy task , to distinguish the principal divisions of the mammalia by the forms and characters of their teeth . Figures 93 through 105 represent the teeth of some of the more common species and genera found in alluvial and cavern deposits . ( FIGURE 93 . Elephas primigenius ( or Mammoth ) ; molar of upper jaw , right side ; one-third of natural size . Post-pliocene. a . Grinding surface . b . Side view . ) ( FIGURE 94 . Elephas antiquus , Falconer . Penultimate molar , one-third of natural size . Post-pliocene and Pliocene . ) ( FIGURE 95 . Elephas meridionalis , Nesti . Penultimate molar , one-third of natural size . Post-pliocene and Pliocene . ) ( FIGURE 96 . Rhinoceros leptorhinus , Cuvier  --  Rhin. megarhinus , Christol ; fossil from fresh-water beds of Grays , Essex ; penultimate molar , lower jaw , left side ; two-thirds of natural size . Post-pliocene and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; penultimate molar , lower jaw , left side ; two-thirds of natural size . Post-pliocene . ) ( FIGURE 98 . Hippopotamus ; from cave near Palermo ; molar tooth ; two-thirds of natural size . Post-pliocene . ) ( FIGURE 99 . Horse . Equus caballus , L. ( common horse ) ; from the shell-marl , Forfarshire ; second molar , lower jaw . Recent . a . Grinding surface , two-thirds natural size . b . Side view of same , half natural size . ) ( FIGURE 100 . Deer . Moose ( Cervus alces , L. ) ; recent ; molar of upper jaw . a . Grinding surface . b . Side view , two-thirds of natural size . ) ( FIGURE 101 . Ox . Ox , common , from shell-marl , Forfarshire ; true molar , upper jaw ; two-thirds natural size . Recent . c . Grinding surface . d . Side view , fangs uppermost . ) ( FIGURE 102 . Bear . a . Canine tooth or tusk of bear ( Ursus spelaeus ) ; from cave near Liege @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; one-third of natural size . Post-pliocene . ) ( FIGURE 103 . Tiger . c . Canine tooth of tiger ( Felis tigris ) ; recent . d . Outside view of posterior molar , lower jaw : one-third of natural size . Recent . ) ( FIGURE 104 . Hyaena spelaea , Goldf. ( variety of H. crocuta ) ; lower jaw . Kent 's Hole , Torquay , Devonshire ; one-third natural size . Post-pliocene . ) ( FIGURE 105 . Teeth of a new species of Arvicola , field-mouse ; from the Norwich Crag . Newer Pliocene . a . Grinding surface . b . Side view of the same . c . Natural size of a and b . ) On comparing the grinding surfaces of the corresponding molars of the three species of elephants , Figures 93 , 94 , 95 it will be seen that the folds of enamel are most numerous in the mammoth , fewer and wider , or more open , in E. antiquus ; and most open and fewest in E. meridionalis . It will be also seen that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 97 ) , is much thicker than in that of the Rhinoceros leptorhinus ( Figure 96 ) . CHAPTER XI . POST-PLIOCENE PERIOD , CONTINUED .  --  GLACIAL CONDITIONS . ( As to the former excess of cold , whether brought about by modifications in the height and distribution of the land or by altered astronomical conditions , see Principles volume 1 10th edition 1867 chapters 12 and 13 " Vicissitudes of Climate . " ) Geographical Distribution , Form , and Characters of Glacial Drift . Fundamental Rocks , polished , grooved , and scratched . Abrading and striating Action of Glaciers . Moraines , Erratic Blocks , and " Roches Moutonnees . " Alpine Blocks on the Jura . Continental Ice of Greenland . Ancient Centres of the Dispersion of Erratics . Transportation of Drift by floating Icebergs . Bed of the Sea furrowed and polished by the running aground of floating Ice-islands . CHARACTER AND DISTRIBUTION OF GLACIAL DRIFT . In speaking of the loose transported matter commonly found on the surface of the land in all parts of the globe , I alluded to the exceptional character @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ temperate and Arctic latitudes of the northern hemisphere . The peculiarity of its form in Europe north of the 50th , and in North America north of the 40th parallel of latitude , is now universally attributed to the action of ice , and the difference of opinion respecting it is now chiefly restricted to the question whether land-ice or floating icebergs have played the chief part in its distribution . It is wanting in the warmer and equatorial regions , and reappears when we examine the lands which lie south of the 40th and 50th parallels in the southern hemisphere , as , for example , in Patagonia , Tierra del Fuego , and New Zealand . It consists of sand and clay , sometimes stratified , but often wholly devoid of stratification for a depth of 50 , 100 , or even a greater number of feet . To this unstratified form of the deposit the name of TILL has long been applied in Scotland . It generally contains a mixture of angular and rounded fragments of rock , some of large size , having occasionally one or more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ polished . The smoothed surfaces usually exhibit many scratches parallel to each other , one set of which often crosses an older set . The till is almost everywhere wholly devoid of organic remains , except those washed into it from older formations , though in some places it contains marine shells , usually of northern or Arctic species , and frequently in a fragmentary state . The bulk of the till has usually been derived from the grinding down into mud of rocks in the immediate neighbourhood , so that it is red in a region of Red Sandstone , as in Strathmore in Forfarshire ; grey or black in a district of coal and bituminous shale , as around Edinburgh ; and white in a chalk country , as in parts of Norfolk and Denmark . The stony fragments dispersed irregularly through the till usually belong , especially in mountainous countries , to rocks found in some part of the same hydrographical basin ; but there are regions where the whole of the boulder clay has come from a distance , and huge blocks , or " erratics , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diameter , have not unfrequently travelled hundreds of miles from their point of departure , or from the parent rocks from which they have evidently been detached . These are commonly angular , and have often one or more of their sides polished and furrowed . The rock on which the boulder formation reposes , if it consists of granite , gneiss , marble , or other hard stone , capable of permanently retaining any superficial markings which may have been imprinted upon it , is usually smoothed or polished , like the erratics above described , and exhibits parallel striae and furrows having a determinate direction . This direction , both in Europe and North America , agrees generally in a marked manner with the course taken by the erratic blocks in the same district . The boulder clay , when it was first studied , seemed in many of its characters so singular and anomalous , that geologists despaired of ever being able to interpret the phenomena by reference to causes now in action . In those exceptional cases where marine shells of the same date as the boulder @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as living species  --  a fact conspiring with the superficial position of the drift to indicate a comparatively modern origin . The term " diluvium " was for a time the most popular name of the boulder formation , because it was referred by many to the deluge of Noah , while others retained the name as expressive of their opinion that a series of diluvial waves raised by hurricanes and storms , or by earthquakes , or by the sudden upheaval of land from the bed of the sea , had swept over the continents , carrying with them vast masses of mud and heavy stones , and forcing these stones over rocky surfaces so as to polish and imprint upon them long furrows and striae . But geologists were not long in seeing that the boulder formation was characteristic of high latitudes , and that on the whole the size and number of erratic blocks increases as we travel towards the Arctic regions . They could not fail to be struck with the contrast which the countries bordering the Baltic presented when compared with those surrounding the Mediterranean . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one region , and the absence of such appearances in the other , were too obvious to be overlooked . Even the great development of the boulder formation , with large erratics so far south as the Alps , offered an exception to the general rule favourable to the hypothesis that there was some intimate connection between it and accumulations of snow and ice . TRANSPORTING AND ABRADING POWER OF GLACIERS . ( FIGURE 106 . Limestone , polished , furrowed , and scratched by the glacier of Rosenlau in Switzerland . ( Agassiz. ) a a . White streaks or scratches , caused by small grains of flint frozen into the ice . b b . Furrows . ) I have described elsewhere ( " Principles " volume 1 chapter 16 1867 ) the manner in which the snow of the Alpine heights is prevented from accumulating indefinitely in thickness by the constant descent of a large portion of it by gravitation . Becoming converted into ice it forms what are termed glaciers , which glide down the principal valleys . On their surface are seen mounds of rubbish or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of rock which fall from the steep slopes or precipices bounding the glaciers . When a glacier , thus laden , descends so far as to reach a region about 3500 feet above the level of the sea , the warmth of the air is such that it melts rapidly in summer , and all the mud , sand , and pieces of rock are slowly deposited at its lower end , forming a confused heap of unstratified rubbish called a MORAINE , and resembling the TILL before described . Besides the blocks thus carried down on the top of the glacier , many fall through fissures in the ice to the bottom , where some of them become firmly frozen into the mass , and are pushed along the base of the glacier , abrading , polishing , and grooving the rocky floor below , as a diamond cuts glass , or as emery-powder polishes steel . The striae which are made , and the deep grooves which are scooped out by this action , are rectilinear and parallel to an extent never seen in those produced on loose stones @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ torrent , or by the waves on a sea-beach . In addition to these polished , striated , and grooved surfaces of rock , another mark of the former action of a glacier is the " roche moutonnee . " Projecting eminences of rock so called have been smoothed and worn into the shape of flattened domes by the glacier as it passed over them . They have been traced in the Alps to great heights above the present glaciers , and to great horizontal distances beyond them . ALPINE BLOCKS ON THE JURA . The moraines , erratics , polished surfaces , domes , and striae , above described , are observed in the great valley of Switzerland , fifty miles broad ; and almost everywhere on the Jura , a chain which lies to the north of this valley . The average height of the Jura is about one-third that of the Alps , and it is now entirely destitute of glaciers ; yet it presents almost everywhere similar moraines , and the same polished and grooved surfaces . The erratics , moreover , which cover it , present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more than half a century . No conclusion can be more incontestable than that these angular blocks of granite , gneiss , and other crystalline formations came from the Alps , and that they have been brought for a distance of fifty miles and upward across one of the widest and deepest valleys in the world ; so that they are now lodged on a chain composed of limestone and other formations , altogether distinct from those of the Alps . Their great size and angularity , after a journey of so many leagues , has justly excited wonder ; for hundreds of them are as large as cottages ; and one in particular , composed of gneiss , celebrated under the name of Pierre a Bot , rests on the side of a hill about 900 feet above the lake of Neufchatel , and is no less than 40 feet in diameter . In the year 1821 , M. Venetz first announced his opinion that the Alpine glaciers must formerly have extended far beyond their present limits , and the proofs appealed to by him in confirmation of this doctrine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by new observations and arguments . M. Charpentier supposed that when the glaciers extended continuously from the Alps to the Jura , the former mountains were 2000 or 3000 feet higher than at present . Other writers , on the contrary , conjectured that the whole country had been submerged , and the moraines and erratic blocks transported on floating icebergs ; but a careful study of the distribution of the travelled masses , and the total absence of marine shells from the old glacial drift of Switzerland , have entirely disproved this last hypothesis . In addition to the many evidences of the action of ice in the northern parts of Europe which we have already mentioned , there occur here and there in some of these countries , what are wanting in Switzerland , deposits of marine fossil shells , which exhibit so arctic a character that they must have led the geologist to infer the former prevalence of a much colder climate , even had he not encountered so many accompanying signs of ice-action . The same marine shells demonstrate the submergence of large areas in Scandinavia and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ characteristic feature of the deposits under consideration in all these countries is the occurrence of large erratic blocks , and sometimes of moraine matter , in situations remote from lofty mountains , and separated from the nearest points where the parent rocks appear at the surface by great intervening valleys , or arms of the sea . We also often observe striae and furrows , as in Norway , Sweden , and Scotland , which deviate from the direction which they ought to follow if they had been connected with the present line of drainage , and they , therefore , imply the prevalence of a very distinct condition of things at the time when the cold was most intense . The actual state of North Greenland seems to afford the best explanation of such abnormal glacial markings . GREENLAND CONTINENTAL ICE . Greenland is a vast unexplored continent , buried under one continuous and colossal mass of ice that is always moving seaward , a very small part of it in an easterly direction , and all the rest westward , or towards Baffin 's Bay . All the minor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ covering of snow , but here and there some steep mountains protrude abruptly from the icy slope , and a few superficial lines of stones or moraines are visible at certain seasons , when no snow has fallen for many months , and when evaporation , promoted by the wind and sun , has caused much of the upper snow to disappear . The height of this continent is unknown , but it must be very great , as the most elevated lands of the outskirts , which are described as comparatively low , attain altitudes of 4000 to 6000 feet . The icy slope gradually lowers itself towards the outskirts , and then terminates abruptly in a mass about 2000 feet in thickness , the great discharge of ice taking place through certain large friths , which , at their upper ends , are usually about four miles across . Down these friths the ice is protruded in huge masses , several miles wide , which continue their course  --  grating along the rocky bottom like ordinary glaciers long after they have reached the salt water . When at last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to buoy up icebergs from 1000 to 1500 feet in vertical thickness , broken masses of them float off , carrying with them on their surface not only fine mud and sand but large stones . These fragments of rock are often polished and scored on one or more sides , and as the ice melts , they drop down to the bottom of the sea , where large quantities of mud are deposited , and this muddy bottom is inhabited by many mollusca . Although the direction of the ice-streams in Greenland may coincide in the main with that which separate glaciers would take if there were no more ice than there is now in the Swiss Alps , yet the striation of the surface of the rocks on an ice-clad continent would , on the whole , vary considerably in its minor details from that which would be imprinted on rocks constituting a region of separate glaciers . For where there is a universal covering of ice there will be a general outward movement from the higher and more central regions towards the circumference and lower country , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ independent of the minor inequalities of hill and valley , when these are all reduced to one level by the snow . The moving ice may sometimes cross even at right angles deep narrow ravines , or the crests of buried ridges , on which last it may afterwards seem strange to detect glacial striae and polishing after the liquefaction of the snow and ice has taken place . Rink mentions that in North Greenland powerful springs of clayey water escape in winter from under the ice , where it descends to " the outskirts , " and where , as already stated , it is often 2000 feet thick  --  a fact showing how much grinding action is going on upon the surface of the subjacent rocks . I also learn from Dr. Torell that there are large areas in the outskirts , now no longer covered with permanent snow or glaciers , which exhibit on their surface unmistakable signs of ancient ice-action , so that , vast as is the power now exerted by ice in Greenland , it must once have operated on a still grander scale . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been formerly much higher . It is well-known that the south coast of Greenland , from latitude 60 degrees to about 70 degrees north , has for the last four centuries been sinking at the rate of several feet in a century . By this means a surface of rock , well scored and polished by ice , is now slowly subsiding beneath the sea , and is becoming strewed over , as the icebergs melt , with impalpable mud and smoothed and scratched stones . It is not precisely known how far north this downward movement extends . DRIFT CARRIED BY ICEBERGS . An account was given so long ago as the year 1822 , by Scoresby , of icebergs seen by him in the Arctic seas drifting along in latitudes 69 and 70 degrees north , which rose above the surface from 100 to 200 feet , and some of which measured a mile in circumference . Many of them were loaded with beds of earth and rock , of such thickness that the weight was conjectured to be from 50,000 to 100,000 tons . A similar transportation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ southern hemisphere , where boulders included in ice are far more frequent than in the north . One of these icebergs was encountered in 1839 , in mid-ocean , in the antarctic regions , many hundred miles from any known land , sailing northward , with a large erratic block firmly frozen into it . Many of them , carefully measured by the officers of the French exploring expedition of the Astrolabe , were between 100 and 225 feet high above water , and from two to five miles in length . Captain d'Urville ascertained one of them which he saw floating in the Southern Ocean to be 13 miles long and 100 feet high , with walls perfectly vertical . The submerged portions of such islands must , according to the weight of ice relatively to sea-water , be from six to eight times more considerable than the part which is visible , so that when they are once fairly set in motion , the mechanical force which they might exert against any obstacle standing in their way would be prodigious . We learn , therefore , from a study @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great extent of land may be entirely covered throughout the whole year by snow and ice , from the summits of the loftiest mountains to the sea-coast , and may yet send down angular erratics to the ocean . We may also conclude that such land will become in the course of ages almost everywhere scored and polished like the rocks which underlie a glacier . The discharge of ice into the surrounding sea will take place principally through the main valleys , although these are hidden from our sight . Erratic blocks and moraine matter will be dispersed somewhat irregularly after reaching the sea , for not only will prevailing winds and marine currents govern the distribution of the drift , but the shape of the submerged area will have its influence ; inasmuch as floating ice , laden with stones , will pass freely through deep water , while it will run a ground where there are reefs and shallows . Some icebergs in Baffin 's Bay have been seen stranded on a bottom 1000 or even 1500 feet deep . In the course of ages such a sea-bed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some of the adjoining greater depths may be free . If , as in West Greenland , the land is slowly sinking , a large extent of the bottom of the ocean will consist of rock polished and striated by land-ice , and then overspread by mud and boulders detached from melting bergs . The mud , sand , and boulders thus let fall in still water must be exactly like the moraines of terrestrial glaciers , devoid of stratification and organic remains . But occasionally , on the outer side of such packs of stranded bergs , the waves and currents may cause the detached earthy and stony materials to be sorted according to size and weight before they reach the bottom , and to acquire a stratified arrangement . I have already alluded to the large quantity of ice , containing great blocks of stone , which is sometimes seen floating far from land , in the southern or Antarctic seas . After the emergence , therefore , of such a submarine area , the superficial detritus will have no necessary relation to the hills , valleys , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ water-shed may intervene between the starting-point of each erratic or pebble and its final resting-place , and the only means of discovering the country from which it took its departure will consist in a careful comparison of its mineral or fossil contents with those of the parent rocks . CHAPTER XII . POST-PLIOCENE PERIOD , CONTINUED .  --  GLACIAL CONDITIONS , CONCLUDED . Glaciation of Scandinavia and Russia . Glaciation of Scotland . Mammoth in Scotch Till . Marine Shells in Scotch Glacial Drift . Their Arctic Character . Rarity of Organic Remains in Glacial Deposits . Contorted Strata in Drift . Glaciation of Wales , England , and Ireland . Marine Shells of Moel Tryfaen . Erratics near Chichester . Glacial Formations of North America . Many Species of Testacea and Quadrupeds survived the Glacial Cold . Connection of the Predominance of Lakes with Glacial Action . Action of Ice in preventing the silting up of Lake-basins . Absence of Lakes in the Caucasus . Equatorial Lakes of Africa . GLACIATION OF SCANDINAVIA AND RUSSIA . In large tracts of Norway and Sweden , where there have been no glaciers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ traced as high as 6000 feet above the level of the sea . These signs consist chiefly of polished and furrowed rock-surfaces , of moraines and erratic blocks . The direction of the erratics , like that of the furrows , has usually been conformable to the course of the principal valleys ; but the lines of both sometimes radiate outward in all directions from the highest land , in a manner which is only explicable by the hypothesis above alluded to of a general envelope of continental ice , like that of Greenland ( Chapter 11 . ) Some of the far-transported blocks have been carried from the central parts of Scandinavia towards the Polar regions ; others southward to Denmark ; some south-westward , to the coast of Norfolk in England ; others south-eastward , to Germany , Poland , and Russia . In the immediate neighbourhood of Upsala , in Sweden , I had observed , in 1834 , a ridge of stratified sand and gravel , in the midst of which occurs a layer of marl , evidently formed originally at the bottom of the Baltic , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and other marine shells of living species , intermixed with some proper to fresh water . The marine shells are all of dwarfish size , like those now inhabiting the brackish waters of the Baltic ; and the marl , in which many of them are imbedded , is now raised more than 100 feet above the level of the Gulf of Bothnia . Upon the top of this ridge repose several huge erratics , consisting of gneiss for the most part unrounded , from nine to sixteen feet in diameter , and which must have been brought into their present position since the time when the neighbouring gulf was already characterised by its peculiar fauna . Here , therefore , we have proof that the transport of erratics continued to take place , not merely when the sea was inhabited by the existing testacea , but when the north of Europe had already assumed that remarkable feature of its physical geography which separates the Baltic from the North Sea , and causes the Gulf of Bothnia to have only one-fourth of the saltness belonging to the ocean . In Denmark @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beds , closely associated with the boulder clay . GLACIATION OF SCOTLAND . Mr. T.F . Jamieson , in 1858 , adduced a great body of facts to prove that the Grampians once sent down glaciers from the central regions in all directions towards the sea . " The glacial grooves , " he observed , " radiate outward from the central heights towards all points of the compass , though they do not always strictly conform to the actual shape and contour of the minor valleys and ridges . " These facts and other characteristics of the Scotch drift lead us to the inference that when the glacial cold first set in , Scotland stood higher above the sea than at present , and was covered for the most part with snow and ice , as Greenland is now . This sheet of land-ice sliding down to lower levels , ground down and polished the subjacent rocks , sweeping off nearly all superficial deposits of older date , and leaving only till and boulders in their place . To this continental state succeeded a period of depression and partial submergence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Scotland was converted into an archipelago , some marine sand with shells being spread over the bottom of the sea . On this sand a great mass of boulder clay usually quite devoid of fossils was accumulated . Lastly , the land re-emerged from the water , and , reaching a level somewhat above its present height , became connected with the continent of Europe , glaciers being formed once more in the higher regions , though the ice probably never regained its former extension . ( Jamieson Quarterly Geological Journal 1860 volume 16 page 370 . ) After all these changes , there were some minor oscillations in the level of the land , on which , although they have had important geographical consequences , separating Ireland from England , for example , and England from the Continent , we need not here enlarge . MAMMOTH IN SCOTCH TILL . Almost all remains of the terrestrial fauna of the Continent which preceded the period of submergence have been lost ; but a few patches of estuarine and fresh-water formations escaped denudation by submergence . To these belong the peaty clay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were obtained at Kilmaurs , in Ayrshire as long ago as 1816 . Mr. Bryce in 1865 ascertained that the fresh-water formation containing these fossils rests on carboniferous sandstone , and is covered , first by a bed of marine sand with arctic shells , and then with a great mass of till with glaciated boulders . ( Bryce Quarterly Geological Journal volume 21 page 217 1865 . ) Still more recent explorations in the neighbourhood of Kilmaurs have shown that the fresh-water formation contains the seed of the pond-weed Potamogeton and the aquatic Ranunculus ; and Mr. Young of the Glasgow Museum washed the mud adhering to the reindeer horns of Kilmaurs and that which filled the cracks of the associated elephants ' tusks , and detected in these fossils ( which had been in the Glasgow Museum for half a century ) abundance of the same seeds . All doubts , therefore , as to the true position of the remains of the mammoth , a fossil so rare in Scotland , have been set at rest , and it serves to prove that part of the ancient continent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as the shells of the overlying sand attest . The incumbent till or boulder clay is about 40 feet thick , but it often attains much greater thickness in the same part of Scotland . MARINE SHELLS OF SCOTCH DRIFT . ( FIGURE 107 . Astarte borealis , Chem. ; ( A. arctica , Moll . A. compressa , Mont . ) ( FIGURE 108 . Leda lanceolata ( oblonga ) , Sowerby . ) ( FIGURE 109 . Saxicava rugosa , Penn . ) ( FIGURE 110 . Pecten islandicus , Moll . Northern shell common in the drift of the Clyde , in Scotland . ) ( FIGURE 111 . Natica clausa , Bred . Northern shell common in the drift of the Clyde , in Scotland . ) ( FIGURE 112 . Trophon clathratum , Linne . Northern shell common in the drift of the Clyde , in Scotland . ) ( FIGURE 113 . Leda truncata. a . Exterior of left valve . b . Interior of same . ) ( FIGURE 114 . Tellina calcarea , Chem . ( Tellina proxima , Brown. ) a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same . ) The greatest height to which marine shells have yet been traced in this boulder clay is at Airdie , in Lanarkshire , ten miles east of Glasgow , 524 feet above the level of the sea . At that spot they were found imbedded in stratified clays with till above and below them . There appears no doubt that the overlying deposit was true glacial till , as some boulders of granite were observed in it , which must have come from distances of sixty miles at the least . The shells figured in Figures 107 to 112 are only a few out of a large assemblage of living species , which , taken as a whole , bear testimony to conditions far more arctic than those now prevailing in the Scottish seas . But a group of marine shells , indicating a still greater excess of cold , has been brought to light since 1860 by the Reverend Thomas Brown , from glacial drift or clay on the borders of the estuaries of the Forth and Tay . This clay occurs at Elie , in Fife , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ afforded about 35 shells , all of living species , and now inhabitants of arctic regions , such as Leda truncata , Tellina proxima ( see Figures 113 and 114 ) , Pecten Groenlandicus , Crenella laevigata , Crenella nigra , and others , some of them first brought by Captain Sir E. Parry from the coast of Melville Island , latitude 76 degrees north . These were all identified in 1863 by Dr. Torell , who had just returned from a survey of the seas around Spitzbergen , where he had collected no less than 150 species of mollusca , living chiefly on a bottom of fine mud derived from the moraines of melting glaciers which there protrude into the sea . He informed me that the fossil fauna of this Scotch glacial deposit exhibits not only the species but also the peculiar varieties of mollusca now characteristic of very high latitudes . Their large size implies that they formerly enjoyed a colder , or , what was to them a more genial climate , than that now prevailing in the latitude where the fossils occur . Marine shells have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Aberdeenshire at heights of 250 feet , and in Banff of 350 feet , and stratified drift continuous with the above ascends to heights of 500 feet . Already 75 species are enumerated from Caithness , and the same number from Aberdeenshire and Banff , and in both cases all but six are arctic species . I formerly suggested that the absence of all signs of organic life in the Scotch drift might be connected with the severity of the cold , and also in some places with the depth of the sea during the period of extreme submergence ; but my faith in such an hypothesis has been shaken by modern investigations , an exuberance of life having been observed both in arctic and antarctic seas of great depth , and where floating ice abounds . The difficulty , moreover , of accounting for the entire dearth of marine shells in till is removed when once we have adopted the theory of this boulder clay being the product of land-ice . For glaciers coming down from a continental ice-sheet like that which covers Greenland may fill friths many hundred feet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bay a thousand feet deep , before they find water enough to float off their terminal portions in the form of icebergs . In such a case till without marine shells may first accumulate , and then , if the climate becomes warmer and the ice melts , a marine deposit may be superimposed on the till without any change of level being required . Another curious phenomenon bearing on this subject was styled by the late Hugh Miller the " striated pavements " of the boulder clay . Where portions of the till have been removed by the sea on the shores of the Forth , or in the interior by railway cuttings , the boulders imbedded in what remains of the drift are seen to have been all subjected to a process of abrasion and striation , the striae and furrows being parallel and persistent across them all , exactly as if a glacier or iceberg had passed over them and scored them in a manner similar to that so often undergone by the solid rocks below the glacial drift . It is possible , as Mr. Geikie conjectures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ referable to floating ice . ( Geikie Transactions of the Geological Society of Glasgow volume 1 part 2 page 68 1863 . ) CONTORTED STRATA IN DRIFT . ( FIGURE 115 . Section of contorted drift overlying till , seen on left bank of South Esk , near Cortachie , in 1840 . Height of section seen , from a to d , about 50 feet . a , b . Gravel and sand . f , g . Contorted drift . Till . ) In Scotland the till is often covered with stratified gravel , sand , and clay , the beds of which are sometimes horizontal and sometimes contorted for a thickness of several feet . Such contortions are not uncommon in Forfarshire , where I observed them , among other places , in a vertical cutting made in 1840 near the left bank of the South Esk , east of the bridge of Cortachie . The convolutions of the beds of fine and coarse sand , gravel , and loam , extend through a thickness of no less than 25 feet vertical , or from b to c @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abruptly at a short distance , as to the right of f , g . The overlying coarse gravel and sand , a , is in some places horizontal , in others it exhibits cross bedding , and does not partake of the disturbances which the strata b , c , have undergone . The underlying till is exposed for a depth of about 20 feet ; and we may infer from sections in the neighbourhood that it is considerably thicker . In some cases I have seen fragments of stratified clays and sands , bent in like manner , in the middle of a great mass of till . Mr. Trimmer has suggested , in explanation of such phenomena , the intercalation in the glacial period of large irregular masses of snow or ice between layers of sand and gravel . Some of the cliffs near Behring 's Straits , in which the remains of elephants occur , consist of ice mixed with mud and stones ; and Middendorf describes the occurrence in Siberia of masses of ice , found at various depths from the surface after digging through drift @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , whether stratified or unstratified , has taken place , the melting of the ice will cause such a failure of support as may give rise to flexures , and sometimes to the most complicated foldings . But in many cases the strata may have been bent and deranged by the mechanical pressure of an advancing glacier , or by the sideway thrust of huge islands of ice running aground against sandbanks ; in which case , the position of the beds forming the foundation of the banks may not be at all disturbed by the shock . There are indeed many signs in Scotland of the action of floating ice , as might have been expected where proofs of submergence in the Glacial Period are not wanting . Among these are the occurrence of large erratic blocks , frequently in clusters at or near the tops of hills or ridges , places which may have formed islets or shallows in the sea where floating ice would mostly ground and discharge its cargo on melting . Glaciers or land-ice would , on the contrary , chiefly discharge their cargoes at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ glaciation have also been observed in some regions where the striation , apparently produced by ice proceeding from the north-west , is not explicable by the radiation of land-ice from a central mountainous region . ( Milne Home Transactions of the Royal Society Edinburgh volume 25 1868-9 . ) GLACIATION OF WALES AND ENGLAND . The mountains of North Wales were recognised , in 1842 , by Dr. Buckland , as having been an independent centre of the dispersion of erratics  --  great glaciers , long since extinct , having radiated from the Snowdonian heights in Carnarvonshire , through seven principal valleys towards as many points of the compass , carrying with them large stony fragments , and grooving the subjacent rocks in as many directions . Besides this evidence of land-glaciers , Mr. Trimmer had previously , in 1831 , detected the signs of a great submergence in Wales in the Post-pliocene period . He had observed stratified drift , from which he obtained about a dozen species of marine shells , near the summit of Moel Tryfaen , a hill 1400 feet high , on the south side of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the summer of 1863 , together with the Reverend W.S. Symonds , a long and deep cutting made through this drift by the Alexandra Mining Company in search of slates . At the top of the hill above-mentioned we saw a stratified mass of incoherent sand and gravel 35 feet thick , from which no less than 54 species of mollusca , besides three characteristic arctic varieties  --  in all 57 forms  --  have been obtained by Mr. Darbishire . They belong without exception to species still living in British or more northern seas ; eleven of them being exclusively arctic , four common to the arctic and British seas , and a large proportion of the remainder having a northward range , or , if found at all in the southern seas of Britain , being comparatively less abundant . In the lowest beds of the drift were large heavy boulders of far-transported rocks , glacially polished and scratched on more than one side . Underneath the whole we saw the edges of vertical slates exposed to view , which here , like the rocks in other parts of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beneath the drift unequivocal marks of prolonged glaciation . The whole deposit has much the appearance of an accumulation in shallow water or on a beach , and it probably acquired its thickness during the gradual subsidence of the coast  --  an hypothesis which would require us to ascribe to it a high antiquity , since we must allow time , first for its sinking , and then for its re-elevation . The height reached by these fossil shells on Moel Tryfaen is no less than 1300 feet  --  a most important fact when we consider how very few instances we have on record beyond the limits of Wales , whether in Europe or North America , of marine shells having been found in glacial drift at half the height above indicated . A marine molluscous fauna , however , agreeing in character with that of Moel Tryfaen , and comprising as many species , has been found in drift at Macclesfield and other places in central England , sometimes reaching an elevation of 1200 feet . Professor Ramsay estimated the probable amount of submergence during some part of the glacial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to distinguish the superficial sands and gravel which reached that high elevation from the drift which , at Moel Tryfaen and at lower points , contains shells of living species . The evidence of the marine origin of the highest drift is no doubt inconclusive in the absence of shells , so great is the resemblance of the gravel and sand of a sea beach and of a river 's bed , when organic remains are wanting ; but , on the other hand , when we consider the general rarity of shells in drift which we know to be of marine origin , we can not suppose that , in the shelly sands of Moel Tryfaen , we have hit upon the exact uppermost limit of marine deposition , or , in other words , a precise measure of the submergence of the land beneath the sea since the glacial period . We are gradually obtaining proofs of the larger part of England , north of a line drawn from the mouth of the Thames to the Bristol Channel , having been under the sea and traversed by floating ice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ observations illustrative of this point , I may allude to the discovery , by Mr. J.F. Bateman , near Blackpool , in Lancashire , fifty miles from the sea , and at the height of 568 feet above its level , of till containing rounded and angular stones and marine shells , such as Turritella communis , Purpura lapillus , Cardium edule , and others , among which Trophon clathratum ( =Fusus Bamffius ) , though still surviving in North British seas , indicates a cold climate . ERRATICS NEAR CHICHESTER . The most southern memorials of ice-action and of a Post-pliocene fauna in Great Britain is on the coast of the county of Sussex , about 25 miles west of Brighton , and 15 south of Chichester . A marine deposit exposed between high and low tide occurs on both sides of the promontory called Selsea Bill , in which Mr. Godwin-Austen found thirty-eight species of shells , and the number has since been raised to seventy . This assemblage is interesting because on the whole , while all the species are recent , they have a somewhat more southern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is true that about forty of them range from British to high northern latitudes ; but several of them , as , for example , Lutraria rugosa and Pecten polymorphous , which are abundant , are not known at present to range farther north than the coast of Portugal , and seem to indicate a warmer temperature than now prevails on the coast where we find them fossil . What renders this curious is the fact that the sandy loam in which they occur is overlaid by yellow clayey gravel with large erratic blocks which must have been drifted into their present position by ice when the climate had become much colder . These transported fragments of granite , syenite , and greenstone , as well as of Devonian and Silurian rocks , may have come from the coast of Normandy and Brittany , and are many of them of such large size that we must suppose them to have been drifted into their present site by coast-ice . I measured one of granite , at Pagham , 21 feet in circumference . In the gravel of this drift with erratics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an ancient coast-line . GLACIAL FORMATIONS OF NORTH AMERICA . In the western hemisphere , both in Canada and as far south as the 40th and even 38th parallel of latitude in the United States , we meet with a repetition of all the peculiarities which distinguish the European boulder formation . Fragments of rock have travelled for great distances , especially from north to south : the surface of the subjacent rock is smoothed , striated , and fluted ; unstratified mud or TILL containing boulders is associated with strata of loam , sand , and clay , usually devoid of fossils . Where shells are present , they are of species still living in northern seas , and not a few of them identical with those belonging to European drift , including most of those already given in Figures 107 to 112 . The fauna also of the glacial epoch in North America is less rich in species than that now inhabiting the adjacent sea , whether in the Gulf of St. Lawrence , or off the shores of Maine , or in the Bay of Massachusetts . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ during the Post-pliocene period to lower latitudes than they reached in Europe , agrees well with the present southward deflection of the isothermal lines , or rather the lines of equal winter temperature . It seems that formerly , as now , a more extreme climate and a more abundant supply of ice prevailed on the western side of the Atlantic . Another resemblance between the distribution of the drift fossils in Europe and North America has yet to be pointed out . In Canada and the United States , as in Europe , the marine shells are generally confined to very moderate elevations above the sea ( between 100 and 700 feet ) , while the erratic blocks and the grooved and polished surfaces of rock extend to elevations of several thousand feet . I have already mentioned that in Europe several quadrupeds of living , as well as extinct , species were common to pre-glacial and post-glacial times . In like manner there is reason to suppose that in North America much of the ancient mammalian fauna , together with nearly all the invertebrata , lived through the ages @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mastodon giganteus was very abundant after the drift period , is evident from the fact that entire skeletons of this animal are met with in bogs and lacustrine deposits occupying hollows in the glacial drift . They sometimes occur in the bottom even of small ponds recently drained by the agriculturist for the sake of the shell-marl . In 1845 no less than six skeletons of the same species of Mastodon were found in Warren county , New Jersey , six feet below the surface , by a farmer who was digging out the rich mud from a small pond which he had drained . Five of these skeletons were lying together , and would be rash , however , to infer from such data that these quadrupeds were mired in MODERN times , unless we use that term strictly in a geological sense . I have shown that there is a fluviatile deposit in the valley of the Niagara , containing shells of the genera Melania , Lymnea , Planorbis , Velvata , Cyclaz , Unio , Helix , etc. , all of recent species , from which the bones @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perfect state . Yet the whole excavation of the ravine , for many miles below the Falls , has been slowly effected since that fluviatile deposit was thrown down . Other extinct animals accompany the Mastodon giganteus in the post-glacial deposits of the United States , and this , taken with the fact that so few of the mollusca , even of the commencement of the cold period , differ from species now living is important , as refuting the hypothesis , for which some have contended , that the intensity of the glacial cold annihilated all the species in temperate and arctic latitudes . CONNECTION OF THE PREDOMINANCE OF LAKES WITH GLACIAL ACTION . It was first pointed out by Professor Ramsay in 1862 , that lakes are exceedingly numerous in those countries where erratics , striated blocks , and other signs of ice-action abound ; and that they are comparatively rare in tropical and sub-tropical regions . Generally in countries where the winter cold is intense , such as Canada , Scandinavia , and Finland , even the plains and lowlands are thickly strewn with innumerable ponds and small @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; while in more temperate regions , such as Great Britain , Central and Southern Europe , the United States , and New Zealand , lake districts occur in all such mountainous tracts as can be proved to have been glaciated in times comparatively modern or since the geographical configuration of the surface bore a considerable resemblance to that now prevailing . In the same countries , beyond the glaciated regions , lakes abruptly cease , and in warmer and tropical countries are either entirely absent , or consist , as in equatorial Africa , of large sheets of water unaccompanied so far as we yet know by numerous smaller ponds and tarns . The southern limits of the lake districts of the Northern Hemisphere are found at about 40 degrees N. latitude on the American continent , and about 50 degrees in Europe , or where the Alps intervene four degrees farther south . A large proportion of the smaller lakes are dammed up by barriers of unstratified drift , having the exact character of the moraines of glaciers , and are termed by geologists " morainic , " but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ water even if all the loose drift now resting on their margins were removed . In a paper read before the Geological Society of London in 1862 , Professor Ramsay maintained that the first formation of most existing lakes took place during the glacial epoch , and was due , not to elevation or subsidence , but to actual erosion of their basins by glaciers . M. Mortillet in the same year advanced the theory that after the Alpine lake-basins had been filled up with loose fluviatile deposits , they were re-excavated by the great glaciers which passed down the valleys at the time of the greatest cold , a doctrine which would attribute to moving ice almost as great a capacity of erosion as that which assumed that the original basins were scooped out of solid rock by glaciers . It is impossible to deny that the mere geographical distribution of lakes points to the intimate connection of their origin with the abundance of ice during a former excess of cold , but how far the erosive action of moving ice has been the sole or even the principal cause @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The lakes of Switzerland and the north of Italy are some of them twenty and thirty miles in length , and so deep that their bottoms are in some cases from 1000 to 2000 feet beneath the level of the sea . It is admitted on all hands that they were once filled with ice , and as the existing glaciers polish and grind down , as before stated , the surface of the rocks , we are prepared to find that every lake-basin in countries once covered by ice should bear the marks of superficial glaciation , and also that the ice during its advance and retreat should have left behind it much transported matter as well as some evidence of its having enlarged the pre-existing cavity . But much more than this is demanded by the advocates of glacial erosion . They suggest that as the old extinct glaciers were several thousand feet thick , they were able in some places gradually to scoop out of the solid rock cavities twenty or thirty miles in length , and as in the case of Lago Maggiore from a thousand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the river-channel , and also that the ice had the power to remove from the cavity formed by its grinding action all the materials of the missing rocks . A constant supply , it is argued , of fine mud issues from the termination of every glacier in the stream which is produced by the melting of the ice , and this result of friction is exhibited both during winter and summer , affording evidence of the continual deepening and widening of the valleys through which glaciers pass . As the fine mud is carried away by a river from the deep pool which is formed from the base of every cataract , so it seems to be imagined that lake-basins may be gradually emptied of the mud formed by abrasion during the glacial period . I am by no means disposed to object to this theory on the ground of the insufficiency of the time during which the extreme cold endured , but we must carefully consider whether that same time is not so vast as to make it probable that other forces , besides the motion of glaciers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ancient valley courses into lake-basins . They who have formed the most exalted conceptions of the erosive energy of moving ice do not deny that during the period termed " Glacial " there have been movements of the earth 's crust sufficient to produce oscillations of level in Europe amounting to 1000 feet or more in both directions . M. Charpentier , indeed , attributed some of the principal changes of climate in Switzerland , during the glacial period , to a depression of the central Alps to the extent of 3000 feet , and Swiss geologists have long been accustomed to attribute their lake basins , in part , to those convulsions by which the shape and course of the valleys may have been modified . Our experience , in the lifetime of the present generation , of the changes of level witnessed in New Zealand during great earthquakes is entirely opposed to the notion that the movements , whether upward or downward , are uniform in amount or direction throughout areas of indefinite extent . On the contrary , the land has been permanently raised in one region several @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gradually to die out , so as to be imperceptible at a distance of twenty miles , and in some areas is even exchanged for a simultaneous downward movement of several feet . But , it is asked , if such inequality of movement can have contributed towards the production of lake basins , does it not leave unexplained the comparative rarity of lakes in tropical and subtropical countries . In reply to this question it may be observed that in our endeavour to estimate the effects of subterranean movements in modifying the superficial geography of a country we must remember that each convulsion effects a very slight change . If it interferes with the drainage , whether by raising the lower or sinking the higher portion of a hydrographical basin , the upheaval or depression will only amount to a few feet at a time , and there may be an interval of years or centuries before any further movement takes place in the same region . In the mean time an incipient lake if produced may be filled up with sediment , and the recently-formed barrier will then be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where glacial conditions prevail no such obliteration of the temporary lake-basin would take place ; for however deep it became by repeated sinking of the upper or rising of the lower extremity , being always filled with ice it might remain , throughout the greater part of its extent , free from sediment or drift until the ice melted at the close of the glacial period . One of the most serious objections to the exclusive origin by ice-erosion of wide and deep lake-basins arises from their capricious distribution , as for example in Piedmont , both to the eastward and westward of Turin , where great lakes are wanting ( Antiquity of Man page 313. ) , although some of the largest extinct glaciers descending from Mont Blanc and Monte Rosa came down from the Alps , leaving their gigantic moraines in the low country . Here , therefore , we might have expected to find lakes of the first magnitude rivalling the contiguous Lago Maggiore in importance . A still more striking illustration of the same absence of lakes where large glaciers abound is afforded by the Caucasus , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ loftiest peaks of which attain heights from 16,000 to 18,000 feet . This greatest altitude is reached by Elbruz , a mountain in latitude 43 degrees north three degrees south of Mont Blanc , but on the other hand 3000 feet higher . The present Caucasian glaciers are equal or superior in dimensions to those of Switzerland , and like them give rise occasionally to temporary lakes by obstructing the course of rivers , and causing great floods when the icy barriers give way . Mr. Freshfield , a careful observer , writing in 1869 , says : " A total absence of lakes on both sides of the chains is the most marked feature . Not only are there no great subalpine sheets of water , like Como or Geneva , but mountain tarns , such as the Dauben See on the Gemmi , or the Klonthal See near Glarus , are equally wanting . " ( Travels in Central Caucasus 1869 page 452 . ) The same author states on the authority of the eminent Swiss geologist , Mons. E. Favre , who also explored the Caucasus in 1868 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ granite and other rocks " justify the assertion that the present glaciers of the Caucasus , like those of the Alps , are only the shadows of their former selves . " It seems safe to assume that the chain of lakes , of which the Albert Nyanza forms one in equatorial Africa , was due to causes other than glacial . Yet if we could imagine a glacial period to visit that region filling the lakes with ice and scoring the rocks which form their sides and bottoms , we should be unable to decide how much the capacity of the basins had been enlarged and the surface modified by glacial erosion . The same may be true of the Lago Maggiore and Lake Superior , although the present basins of both of them afford abundant superficial markings due to ice-action . But to whatever combination of causes we attribute the great Alpine lakes one thing is clear , namely , that they are , geologically speaking , of modern origin . Every one must admit that the upper valley of the Rhone has been chiefly caused by fluviatile denudation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ removed from that valley previous to the glacial period would have been amply sufficient to fill up with sediment the basin of the Lake of Geneva , supposing it to have been in existence , even if its capacity had been many times greater than it is now . ( See Principles volume 1 page 420 10th edition 1867 . ) On the whole , it appears to me , in accordance with the views of Professor Ramsay , M. Mortillet , Mr. Geikie , and others , that the abrading action of ice has formed some mountain tarns and many morainic lakes ; but when it is a question of the origin of larger and deeper lakes , like those of Switzerland or the north of Italy , or inland fresh-water seas , like those of Canada , it will probably be found that ice has played a subordinate part in comparison with those movements by which changes of level in the earth 's crust are gradually brought about . TERTIARY OR CAINOZOIC PERIOD . CHAPTER XIII . PLIOCENE PERIOD . Glacial Formations of Pliocene Age . Bridlington Beds . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cromer Forest-bed . Aldeby and Chillesford Beds . Norwich Crag . Older Pliocene Strata . Red Crag of Suffolk . Coprolitic Bed of Red Crag . White or Coralline Crag . Relative Age , Origin , and Climate of the Crag Deposits . Antwerp Crag . Newer Pliocene Strata of Sicily . Newer Pliocene Strata of the Upper Val d'Arno . Older Pliocene of Italy . Subapennine Strata . Older Pliocene Flora of Italy . It will be seen in the description given in the last chapter of the Post-pliocene formations of the British Isles that they comprise a large proportion of those commonly termed glacial , characterised by shells which , although referable to living species , usually indicate a colder climate than that now belonging to the latitudes where they occur fossil . But in parts of England , more especially in Yorkshire , Norfolk , and Suffolk , there are superficial formations of clay with glaciated boulders , and of sand and pebbles , containing occasional , though rare , patches of shells , in which the marine fauna begins to depart from that now inhabiting the neighbouring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ known as living , as well as extinct varieties of others , entitling us to class them as Newer Pliocene , although belonging to the close of that period and chronologically on the verge of the later or Post-pliocene epoch . BRIDLINGTON DRIFT . To this era belongs the well-known locality of Bridlington , near the mouth of the Humber , in Yorkshire , where about seventy species or well-marked varieties of shells have been found on the coast , near the sea-level , in a bed of sand several feet thick resting on glacial clay with much chalk debris , and covered by a deposit of purple clay with glaciated boulders . More than a third of the species in this drift are now inhabitants of arctic regions , none of them extending southward to the British seas ; which is the more remarkable as Bridlington is situated in latitude 54 degrees north . Fifteen species are British and Arctic , a very few belong to those species which range south of our British seas . Five species or well-marked varieties are not known living , namely , the variety @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mutabilis ; the sinistral form of Tritonium carinatum , Cardita analis , and Tellina obliqua , Figure 120 . Mr. Searles Wood also inclines to consider Nucula Cobboldiae , Figure 119 , now absent from the European seas and the Atlantic , as specifically distinct from a closely-allied shell now living in the seas surrounding Vancouver 's Island , which some conchologists regard as a variety . Tellina obliqua also approaches very near to a shell now living in Japan . GLACIAL DRIFT OF IRELAND . Marine drift containing the last-mentioned Nucula and other glacial shells reaches a height of from 1000 to 1200 feet in the county of Wexford , south of Dublin . More than eighty species have already been obtained from this formation , of which two , Conovulus pyramidalis and Nassa monensis , are not known as living ; while Turritella incrassata and Cypraea lucida no longer inhabit the British seas , but occur in the Mediterranean . The great elevation of these shells , and the still greater height to which the surface of the rocks in the mountainous regions of Ireland have been smoothed and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that that island , like the greater part of England and Scotland , after having been united with the continent of Europe , from whence it received the plants and animals now inhabiting it , was in great part submerged . The conversion of this and other parts of Great Britain into an archipelago was followed by a re-elevation of land and a second continental period . After all these changes the final separation of Ireland from Great Britain took place , and this event has been supposed to have preceded the opening of the straits of Dover . ( See Antiquity of Man chapter 14 . ) DRIFT OF NORFOLK CLIFFS . ( FIGURE 116 . Tellina balthica ( T. solidula ) . ) There are deposits of boulder clay and till in the Norfolk cliffs principally made up of the waste of white chalk and flints which , in the opinion of Mr. Searles Wood , jun. , and others , are older than the Bridlington drift , and contain a larger proportion of shells common to the Norwich and Red Crag , including a certain number of extinct @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ solidula , Figure 116 ) , which is found fossil at Bridlington , and living in our British seas , but wanting in all the formations , even the newest , afterwards to be described as Crag . As the greater part of these drifts are barren of organic remains , their classification is at present a matter of great uncertainty . They can nowhere be so advantageously studied as on the coast between Happisburgh and Cromer . Here we may see vertical cliffs , sometimes 300 feet and more in height , exposed for a distance of fifty miles , at the base of which the chalk with flints crops out in nearly horizontal strata . Beds of gravel and sand repose on this undisturbed chalk . They are often strangely contorted , and envelop huge masses or erratics of chalk with layers of vertical flint . I measured one of these fragments in 1839 at Sherringham , and found it to be eighty feet in its longest diameter . It has been since entirely removed by the waves of the sea . In the floor of the chalk beneath @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have evidently been moved bodily from their original site , probably by the same glacial action which has polished and striated some of the accompanying granitic and other boulders , occasionally six feet in diameter , which are imbedded in the drift . CROMER FOREST-BED . Intervening between these glacial formations and the subjacent chalk lies what has been called the Cromer Forest-bed . This buried forest has been traced from Cromer to near Kessingland , a distance of more than forty miles , being exposed at certain seasons between high and low water mark . It is the remains of an old land and estuarine deposit , containing the submerged stumps of trees standing erect with their roots in the ancient soil . Associated with the stumps and overlying them , are lignite beds with fresh-water shells of recent species , and laminated clay without fossils . Through the lignite and forest-bed are scattered cones of the Scotch and spruce firs with the seeds of recent plants , and the bones of at least twenty species of terrestrial mammalia . Among these are two species of elephant , E. meridionalis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Newer Pliocene beds of the Val d'Arno , near Florence . In the same bed occur Hippopotamus major , Rhinoceros etruscus , both of them also Val d'Arno species , many species of deer considered by Mr. Boyd Dawkins to be characteristic of warmer countries , and also a horse , beaver , and field-mouse . Half of these mammalia are extinct , and the rest still survive in Europe . The vegetation taken alone does not imply a temperature higher than that now prevailing in the British Isles . There must have been a subsidence of the forest to the amount of 400 or 500 feet , and a re-elevation of the same to an equal extent in order to allow the ancient surface of the chalk or covering of soil , on which the forest grew , to be first covered with several hundred feet of drift , and then upheaved so that the trees should reach their present level . Although the relative antiquity of the forest-bed to the overlying glacial till is clear , there is some difference of opinion as to its relation to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ BEDS . ( FIGURE 117 . Natica helicoides , Johnson . ) It is in the counties of Norfolk , Suffolk , and Essex , that we obtain our most valuable information respecting the British Pliocene strata , whether newer or older . They have obtained in those counties the provincial name of " Crag , " applied particularly to masses of shelly sand which have long been used in agriculture to fertilise soils deficient in calcareous matter . At Chillesford , between Woodbridge and Aldborough in Suffolk , and Aldeby , near Beccles , in the same county , there occur stratified deposits , apparently older than any of the preceding drifts of Yorkshire , Norfolk , and Suffolk . They are composed at Chillesford of yellow sands and clays , with much mica , forming horizontal beds about twenty feet thick . Messrs . Prestwich and Searles Wood , senior , who first described these beds , point out that the shells indicate on the whole a colder climate than the Red Crag ; two-thirds of them being characteristic of high latitudes . Among these are Cardium Groenlandicum , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In the upper part of the laminated clays a skeleton of a whale was found associated with casts of the characteristic shells , Nucula Cobboldiae and Tellina obliqua , already referred to as no longer inhabiting our seas , and as being extinct varieties if not species . The same shells occur in a perfect state in the lower part of the formati//                     