@@748779

txt //ianity , we both hoped to promote it ; but we did not confound religion with sectarianism , and we saw in the sectarian character of American colleges and universities as a whole , a reason for the poverty of the advanced instruction then given in so many of them . It required no great acuteness to see that a system of control which , in selecting a Professor of Mathematics or Language or Rhetoric or Physics or Chemistry , asked first and above all to what sect or even to what wing or branch of a sect he belonged , could hardly do much to advance the moral , religious , or intellectual development of mankind . The reasons for the new foundation seemed to us , then , so cogent that we expected the co-operation of all good citizens , and anticipated no opposition from any source . As I look back across the intervening years , I know not whether to be more astonished or amused at our simplicity . Opposition began at once . In the State Legislature it confronted us at every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the State  --  from the good Protestant bishop who proclaimed that all professors should be in holy orders , since to the Church alone was given the command , " Go , teach all nations , " to the zealous priest who published a charge that Goldwin Smith  --  a profoundly Christian scholar  --  had come to Cornell in order to inculcate the " infidelity of the Westminster Review " ; and from the eminent divine who went from city to city , denouncing the " atheistic and pantheistic tendencies " of the proposed education , to the perfervid minister who informed a denominational synod that Agassiz , the last great opponent of Darwin , and a devout theist , was " preaching Darwinism and atheism " in the new institution . As the struggle deepened , as hostile resolutions were introduced into various ecclesiastical bodies , as honored clergymen solemnly warned their flocks first against the " atheism , " then against the " infidelity , " and finally against the " indifferentism " of the university , as devoted pastors endeavoured to dissuade young men from matriculation , I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attacks from pulpits and religious newspapers , attempted to allay the fears of the public . " Sweet reasonableness " was fully tried . There was established and endowed in the university perhaps the most effective Christian pulpit , and one of the most vigorous branches of the Christian Association , then in the United States ; but all this did nothing to ward off the attack . The clause in the charter of the university forbidding it to give predominance to the doctrines of any sect , and above all the fact that much prominence was given to instruction in various branches of science , seemed to prevent all compromise , and it soon became clear that to stand on the defensive only made matters worse . Then it was that there was borne in upon me a sense of the real difficulty  --  the antagonism between the theological and scientific view of the universe and of education in relation to it ; therefore it was that , having been invited to deliver a lecture in the great hall of the Cooper Institute at New York , I took as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which follows : In all modern history , interference with science in the supposed interest of religion , no matter how conscientious such interference may have been , has resulted in the direst evils both to religion and science , and invariably ; and , on the other hand , all untrammeled scientific investigation , no matter how dangerous to religion some of its stages may have seemed for the time to be , has invariably resulted in the highest good both of religion and science . The lecture was next day published in the New York Tribune at the request of Horace Greeley , its editor , who was also one of the Cornell University trustees . As a result of this widespread publication and of sundry attacks which it elicited , I was asked to maintain my thesis before various university associations and literary clubs ; and I shall always remember with gratitude that among those who stood by me and presented me on the lecture platform with words of approval and cheer was my revered instructor , the Rev. Dr. Theodore Dwight Woolsey , at that time President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a couple of magazine articles , and then into a little book called The Warfare of Science , for which , when republished in England , Prof. John Tyndall wrote a preface . Sundry translations of this little book were published , but the most curious thing in its history is the fact that a very friendly introduction to the Swedish translation was written by a Lutheran bishop . Meanwhile Prof. John W. Draper published his book on The Conflict between Science and Religion , a work of great ability , which , as I then thought , ended the matter , so far as my giving it further attention was concerned . But two things led me to keep on developing my own work in this field : First , I had become deeply interested in it , and could not refrain from directing my observation and study to it ; secondly , much as I admired Draper 's treatment of the questions involved , his point of view and mode of looking at history were different from mine . He regarded the struggle as one between Science and Religion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that it was a struggle between Science and Dogmatic Theology . More and more I saw that it was the conflict between two epochs in the evolution of human thought  --  the theological and the scientific . So I kept on , and from time to time published New Chapters in the Warfare of Science as magazine articles in The Popular Science Monthly . This was done under many difficulties . For twenty years , as President of Cornell University and Professor of History in that institution , I was immersed in the work of its early development . Besides this , I could not hold myself entirely aloof from public affairs , and was three times sent by the Government of the United States to do public duty abroad : first as a commissioner to Santo Domingo , in 1870 ; afterward as minister to Germany , in 1879 ; finally , as minister to Russia , in 1892 ; and was also called upon by the State of New York to do considerable labor in connection with international exhibitions at Philadelphia and at Paris . I was also obliged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effects of overwork . The variety of residence and occupation arising from these causes may perhaps explain some peculiarities in this book which might otherwise puzzle my reader . While these journeyings have enabled me to collect materials over a very wide range  --  in the New World , from Quebec to Santo Domingo and from Boston to Mexico , San Francisco , and Seattle , and in the Old World from Trondhjem to Cairo and from St. Petersburg to Palermo  --  they have often obliged me to write under circumstances not very favorable : sometimes on an Atlantic steamer , sometimes on a Nile boat , and not only in my own library at Cornell , but in those of Berlin , Helsingfors , Munich , Florence , and the British Museum . This fact will explain to the benevolent reader not only the citation of different editions of the same authority in different chapters , but some iterations which in the steady quiet of my own library would not have been made . It has been my constant endeavour to write for the general reader , avoiding scholastic and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ simply as it presents itself to me . That errors of omission and commission will be found here and there is probable  --  nay , certain ; but the substance of the book will , I believe , be found fully true . I am encouraged in this belief by the fact that , of the three bitter attacks which this work in its earlier form has already encountered , one was purely declamatory , objurgatory , and hortatory , and the others based upon ignorance of facts easily pointed out . And here I must express my thanks to those who have aided me . First and above all to my former student and dear friend , Prof. George Lincoln Burr , of Cornell University , to whose contributions , suggestions , criticisms , and cautions I am most deeply indebted ; also to my friends U. G. Weatherly , formerly Travelling Fellow of Cornell , and now Assistant Professor in the University of Indiana ,  --  Prof. and Mrs. Earl Barnes and Prof. William H. Hudson , of Stanford University ,  --  and Prof. E. P Evans , formerly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , for extensive aid in researches upon the lines I have indicated to them , but which I could never have prosecuted without their co-operation . In libraries at home and abroad they have all worked for me most effectively , and I am deeply grateful to them . This book is presented as a sort of Festschrift  --  a tribute to Cornell University as it enters the second quarter-century of its existence , and probably my last tribute . The ideas for which so bitter a struggle was made at its foundation have triumphed . Its faculty , numbering over one hundred and , fifty ; its students , numbering but little short of two thousand ; its noble buildings and equipment ; the munificent gifts , now amounting to millions of dollars , which it has received from public-spirited men and women ; the evidences of public confidence on all sides ; and , above all , the adoption of its cardinal principles and main features by various institutions of learning in other States , show this abundantly . But there has been a triumph far greater and wider @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tendency is seen . During the quarter-century just past the control of public instruction , not only in America but in the leading nations of Europe , has passed more and more from the clergy to the laity . Not only are the presidents of the larger universities in the United States , with but one or two exceptions , laymen , but the same thing is seen in the old European strongholds of metaphysical theology . At my first visit to Oxford and Cambridge , forty years ago , they were entirely under ecclesiastical control . Now , all this is changed . An eminent member of the present British Government has recently said , " A candidate for high university position is handicapped by holy orders . " I refer to this with not the slightest feeling of hostility toward the clergy , for I have none ; among them are many of my dearest friends ; no one honours their proper work more than I ; but the above fact is simply noted as proving the continuance of that evolution which I have endeavoured to describe in this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the warfare of Theology against Science has been one of the most active and powerful agents . My belief is that in the field left to them  --  their proper field  --  the clergy will more and more , as they cease to struggle against scientific methods and conclusions , do work even nobler and more beautiful than anything they have heretofore done . And this is saying much . My conviction is that Science , though it has evidently conquered Dogmatic Theology based on biblical texts and ancient modes of thought , will go hand in hand with Religion ; and that , although theological control will continue to diminish , Religion , as seen in the recognition of " a Power in the universe , not ourselves , which makes for righteousness , " and in the love of God and of our neighbor , will steadily grow stronger and stronger , not only in the American institutions of learning but in the world at large . Thus may the declaration of Micah as to the requirements of Jehovah , the definition by St. James of " pure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the precepts and ideals of the blessed Founder of Christianity himself , be brought to bear more and more effectively on mankind . I close this preface some days after its first lines were written . The sun of spring has done its work on the Neva ; the great river flows tranquilly on , a blessing and a joy ; the mujiks are forgotten . A. D. W. LEGATION OF THE UNITED STATES , ST . PETERSBURG , April 14,1894 . P.S.  --  Owing to a wish to give more thorough revision to some parts of my work , it has been withheld from the press until the present date . A. D. W. CORNELL UNIVERSITY , ITHACA , N.Y. , August 15 , 1895 . CONTENTS OF THE FIRST VOLUME . CHAPTER I. FROM CREATION TO EVOLUTION . I. The Visible Universe . Ancient and medieval views regarding the manner of creation Regarding the matter of creation Regarding the time of creation Regarding the date of creation Regarding the Creator Regarding light and darkness Rise of the conception of an evolution : among the Chaldeans , the Hebrews , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ages , despite the disfavour of the Church Its development in modern times .  --  The nebular hypothesis and its struggle with theology The idea of evolution at last victorious Our sacred books themselves an illustration of its truth The true reconciliation of Science and Theology II . Theological Teachings regarding the Animals and Man . Ancient and medieval representations of the creation of man Literal acceptance of the book of Genesis by the Christian fathers By the Reformers By modern theologians , Catholic and Protestant Theological reasoning as to the divisions of the animal kingdom The Physiologus , the Bestiaries , the Exempila Beginnings of sceptical observation Development of a scientific method in the study of Nature Breaking down of the theological theory of creation III . Theological and Scientific Theories of an Evolution in Animated Nature . Ideas of evolution among the ancients In the early Church In the medieval Church Development of these ideas from the sixteenth to the eighteenth centuries The work of De Maillet Of Linneus Of Buffon Contributions to the theory of evolution at the close of the eighteenth century The work of Treviranus and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the middle of the nineteenth century The contributions of Darwin and Wallace The opposition of Agassiz IV . The Final Effort of Theology . Attacks on Darwin and his theories in England In America Formation of sacro-scientific organizations to combat the theory of evolution The attack in France In Germany Conversion of Lyell to the theory of evolution The attack of Darwin 's Descent of Man Difference between this and the former attack Hostility to Darwinism in America Change in the tone of the controversy .  --  Attempts at compromise Dying-out of opposition to evolution Last outbursts of theological hostility Final victory of evolution CHAPTER II . GEOGRAPHY I. The Form of the Earth . Primitive conception of the earth as flat In Chaldea and Egypt In Persia Among the Hebrews Evolution , among the Greeks , of the idea of its sphericity Opposition of the early Church Evolution of a sacred theory , drawn from the Bible Its completion by Cosmas Indicopleustes Its influence on Christian thought Survival of the idea of the earth 's sphericity  --  its acceptance by Isidore and Bede Its struggle and final victory II @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ancient people that its own central place was the centre of the earth Hebrew conviction that the earth 's centre was at Jerusalem Acceptance of this view by Christianity Influence of other Hebrew conceptions  --  Gog and Magog , the " four winds , " the waters " on an heap " III . The Inhabitants of the Earth . The idea of antipodes Its opposition by the Christian Church  --  Gregory Nazianzen , Lactantius , Basil , Ambrose , Augustine , Procopius of Gaza , Cosmas , Isidore Virgil of Salzburg 's assertion of it in the eighth century Its revival by William of Conches and Albert the Great in the thirteenth Surrender of it by Nicolas d'Oresme Fate of Peter of Abano and Cecco d ' Ascoli Timidity of Pierre d'Ailly and Tostatus Theological hindrance of Columbus Pope Alexander VI 's demarcation line Cautious conservatism of Gregory Reysch Magellan and the victory of science IV . The Size of the Earth . Scientific attempts at measuring the earth The sacred solution of the problem Fortunate influence of the blunder upon Columbus V. The Character of the Earth 's Surface @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Judea Contrast between the theological and the religious spirit in their effects on science CHAPTER III . ASTRONOMY . I. The Old Sacred Theory of the Universe . The early Church 's conviction of the uselessness of astronomy The growth of a sacred theory  --  Origen , the Gnostics , Philastrius , Cosmas , Isidore The geocentric , or Ptolemaic , theory , its origin , and its acceptance by the Christian world Development of the new sacred system of astronomy  --  the pseudo-Dionysius , Peter Lombard , Thomas Aquinas Its popularization by Dante Its details Its persistence to modern times II . The Heliocentric Theory . Its rise among the Greeks  --  Pythagoras , Philolaus , Aristarchus Its suppression by the charge of blasphemy Its loss from sight for six hundred Years , then for a thousand Its revival by Nicholas de Cusa and Nicholas Copernicus Its toleration as a hypothesis Its prohibition as soon as Galileo teaches it as a truth Consequent timidity of scholars  --  Acosta , Apian Protestantism not less zealous in opposition than Catholicism  --  Luther Melanchthon , Calvin , Turretin This opposition especially persistent in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Forbes , Owen , Wesley Resulting interferences with freedom of teaching Giordano Bruno 's boldness and his fate The truth demonstrated by the telescope of Galileo III . The War upon Galileo . Concentration of the war on this new champion The first attack Fresh attacks  --  Elci , Busaeus , Caccini , Lorini , Bellarmin Use of epithets Attempts to entrap Galileo His summons before the Inquisition at Rome The injunction to silence , and the condemnation of the theory of the earth 's motion The work of Copernicus placed on the Index Galileo 's seclusion Renewed attacks upon Galileo  --  Inchofer , Fromundus IV . Victory of the Church over Galileo Publication of his Dialogo Hostility of Pope Urban VIII Galileo 's second trial by the Inquisition His abjuration Later persecution of him Measures to complete the destruction of the Copernican theory Persecution of Galileo 's memory Protestant hostility to the new astronomy and its champions V. Results of the Victory over Galileo . Rejoicings of churchmen over the victory The silencing of Descartes Persecution of Campanella and of Kepler Persistence and victory of science Dilemma of the theologians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Church after its Victory over Galileo . The easy path for the Protestant theologians The difficulties of the older Church .  --  The papal infallibility fully committed against the Copernican theory Attempts at evasion  --  first plea : that Galileo was condemned not for affirming the earth 's motion , but for supporting it from Scripture Its easy refutation Second plea : that he was condemned not for heresy , but for contumacy Folly of this assertion Third plea : that it was all a quarrel between Aristotelian professors and those favouring the experimental method Fourth plea : that the condemnation of Galileo was " provisory " Fifth plea : that he was no more a victim of Catholics than of Protestants Efforts to blacken Galileo 's character Efforts to suppress the documents of his trial Their fruitlessness Sixth plea : that the popes as popes had never condemned his theory Its confutation from their own mouths Abandonment of the contention by honest Catholics Two efforts at compromise  --  Newman , De Bonald Effect of all this on thinking men The fault not in Catholicism more than in Protestantism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . FROM " SIGNS AND WONDERS " TO LAW IN THE HEAVENS . I. The Theological View . Early beliefs as to comets , meteors , and eclipses Their inheritance by Jews and Christians The belief regarding comets especially harmful as a source of superstitious terror Its transmission through the Middle Ages Its culmination under Pope Calixtus III Beginnings of scepticism  --  Copernicus , Paracelsus , Scaliger Firmness of theologians , Catholic and Protestant , in its support II . Theological Efforts to crush the Scientific View . The effort through the universities .  --  The effort through the pulpits Heerbrand at Tubingen and Dieterich at Marburg Maestlin at Heidelberg Buttner , Vossius , Torreblanca , Fromundus Father Augustin de Angelis at Rome Reinzer at Linz Celichius at Magdeburg Conrad Dieterich 's sermon at Ulm Erni and others in Switzerland Comet doggerel Echoes from New England  --  Danforth , Morton , Increase Mather III . The Invasion of Scepticism . Rationalism of Cotton Mather , and its cause Blaise de Vigenere Erastus Bekker , Lubienitzky , Pierre Petit Bayle Fontenelle The scientific movement beneath all this IV . Theological Efforts at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ admission that some comets are supralunar Difference between scientific and theological reasoning Development of the reasoning of Tycho and Kepler  --  Cassini , Hevel , Doerfel , Bernouilli , Newton Completion of the victory by Halley and Clairaut Survivals of the superstition  --  Joseph de Maistre , Forster Arago 's statistics The theories of Whiston and Burnet , and their influence in Germany The superstition ended in America by the lectures of Winthrop Helpful influence of John Wesley Effects of the victory CHAPTER V. FROM GENESIS TO GEOLOGY . I. Growth of Theological Explanations Germs of geological truth among the Greeks and Romans Attitude of the Church toward science Geological theories of the early theologians Attitude of the schoolmen Contributions of the Arabian schools Theories of the earlier Protestants Influence of the revival of learning II . Efforts to Suppress the Scientific View . Revival of scientific methods Buffon and the Sorbonne Beringer 's treatise on fossils Protestant opposition to the new geology  --  - the works of Burnet , Whiston , Wesley , Clark , Watson , Arnold , Cockburn , and others III . The First Great Effort of Compromise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that fossils were produced by the Deluge Its acceptance by both Catholics and Protestants  --  Luther , Calmet Burnet , Whiston , Woodward , Mazurier , Torrubia , Increase Mather Scheuchzer Voltaire 's theory of fossils Vain efforts of enlightened churchmen in behalf of the scientific view Steady progress of science  --  the work of Cuvier and Brongniart Granvile Penn 's opposition The defection of Buckland and Lyell to the scientific side Surrender of the theologians Remnants of the old belief Death-blow given to the traditional theory of the Deluge by the discovery of the Chaldean accounts Results of the theological opposition to science IV . Final Efforts at Compromise  --  The Victory of Science complete . Efforts of Carl von Raumer , Wagner , and others The new testimony of the caves and beds of drift as to the antiquity of man Gosse 's effort to save the literal interpretation of Genesis Efforts of Continental theologians Gladstone 's attempt at a compromise Its demolition by Huxley By Canon Driver Dean Stanley on the reconciliation of Science and Scripture CHAPTER VI . THE ANTIQUITY OF MAN , EGYPTOLOGY , AND ASSYRIOLOGY @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Science has gained a definite victory over Theology Opinions of the Church fathers on the antiquity of man The chronology of Isidore Of Bede Of the medieval Jewish scholars The views of the Reformers on the antiquity of man Of the Roman Church Of Archbishop Usher Influence of Egyptology on the belief in man 's antiquity La Peyrere 's theory of the Pre-Adamites Opposition in England to the new chronology II . The New Chronology . Influence of the new science of Egyptology on biblical chronology Manetho 's history of Egypt and the new chronology derived from it Evidence of the antiquity of man furnished by the monuments of Egypt By her art By her science By other elements of civilization By the remains found in the bed of the Nile Evidence furnished by the study of Assyriology CHAPTER VII . THE ANTIQUITY OF MAN AND PREHISTORIC ARCHAEOLOGY . I. The Thunder-stones . Early beliefs regarding " thunder-stones " Theories of Mercati and Tollius regarding them Their identification with the implements of prehistoric man Remains of man found in caverns Unfavourable influence on scientific activity of the political conditions of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ French Revolution of to ? ? Rallying of the reactionary clerical influence against science II . The Flint Weapons and Implements . Boucher de Perthes 's contributions to the knowledge of prehistoric man His conclusions confirmed by Lyell and others Cave explorations of Lartet and Christy Evidence of man 's existence furnished by rude carvings Cave explorations in the British Islands Evidence of man 's existence in the Drift period In the early Quaternary and in the Tertiary periods CHAPTER VIII . THE " FALL OF MAN " AND ANTHROPOLOGY . The two antagonistic views regarding the life of man on the earth The theory of " the Fall " among ancient peoples Inheritance of this view by the Christian Church Appearance among the Greeks and Romans of the theory of a rise of man Its disappearance during the Middle Ages Its development since the seventeenth century The first blow at the doctrine of " the Fall " comes from geology Influence of anthropology on the belief in this doctrine The finding of human skulls in Quaternary deposits Their significance Results obtained from the comparative study of the remains of human @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Baltic Sea In peat-beds The lake-dwellers Indications of the upward direction of man 's development Mr. Southall 's attack on the theory of man 's antiquity An answer to it Discovery of prehistoric human remains in Egypt Hamard 's attack on the new scientific conclusions The survival of prehistoric implements in religious rites Strength of the argument against the theory of " the Fall of Man " CHAPTER IX . THE " FALL OF MAN " AND ETHNOLOGY . The beginnings of the science of Comparative Ethnology Its testimony to the upward tendency of man from low beginning Theological efforts to break its force  --  De Maistre and DeBonald Whately 's attempt The attempt of the Duke of Argyll Evidence of man 's upward tendency derived from Comparative Philology From Comparative Literature and Folklore From Comparative Ethnography From Biology CHAPTER X. THE " FALL OF MAN " AND HISTORY . Proof of progress given by the history of art Proofs from general history Development of civilization even under unfavourable circumstances Advancement even through catastrophes and the decay of civilizations Progress not confined to man 's material condition Theological struggle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dr. Woodrow Other interferences with freedom of teaching The great harm thus done to religion Rise of a better spirit The service rendered to religion by Anthropology CHAPTER XI . FROM " THE PRINCE OF THE POWER OF THE AIR " TO METEOROLOGY . I. Growth of a Theological Theory . The beliefs of classical antiquity regarding storms , thunder , and lightning Development of a sacred science of meteorology by the fathers of the Church Theories of Cosmas Indicopleustes Of Isidore Of Seville Of Bede Of Rabanus Maurus Rational views of Honorius of Autun Orthodox theories of John of San Geminiano Attempt of Albert the Great to reconcile the speculations of Aristotle with the theological views The monkish encyclopedists Theories regarding the rainbow and the causes of storms Meteorological phenomena attributed to the Almighty II . Diabolical Agency in Storms . Meteorological phenomena attributed to the devil  --  " the prince of the power of the air " Propagation of this belief by the medieval theologians Its transmission to both Catholics and Protestants  --  Eck , Luther The great work of Delrio Guacci 's Compendium The employment of prayer against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fetiches and processions Of consecrated church bells III . The Agency of Witches . The fearful results of the witch superstition Its growth out of the doctrine of evil agency in atmospheric phenomena Archbishop Agobard 's futile attempt to dispel it Its sanction by the popes Its support by confessions extracted by torture Part taken in the persecution by Dominicans and Jesuits Opponents of the witch theory  --  Pomponatius , Paracelsus , Agrippa of Nettesheim Jean Bodin 's defence of the superstition Fate of Cornelius Loos Of Dietrich Flade Efforts of Spee to stem the persecution His posthumous influence Upholders of the orthodox view  --  Bishop Binsfeld , Remigius Vain protests of Wier Persecution of Bekker for opposing the popular belief Effect of the Reformation in deepening the superstition The persecution in Great Britain and America Development of a scientific view of the heavens Final efforts to revive the old belief IV . Franklin 's Lightning-Rod . Franklin 's experiments with the kite Their effect on the old belief Efforts at compromise between the scientific and theological theories Successful use of the lightning-rod Religious scruples against it in America In England @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ victory exemplified in the case of the church of the monastery of Lerins In the case of Dr. Moorhouse In the case of the Missouri droughts CHAPTER XII . FROM MAGIC TO CHEMISTRY AND PHYSICS . I. The Supremacy of Magic . Primitive tendency to belief in magic The Greek conception of natural laws Influence of Plato and Aristotle on the growth of science Effect of the establishment of Christianity on the development of the physical sciences The revival of thought in the twelfth and thirteenth centuries Albert the Great Vincent of Beauvais Thomas Aquinas Roger Bacon 's beginning of the experimental method brought to nought The belief that science is futile gives place to the belief that it is dangerous The two kinds of magic Rarity of persecution for magic before the Christian era The Christian theory of devils Constantine 's laws against magic Increasing terror of magic and witchcraft Papal enactments against them Persistence of the belief in magic Its effect on the development of science Roger Bacon Opposition of secular rulers to science John Baptist Porta The opposition to scientific societies in Italy In England The effort to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mystic theology Its harmful influence on science Mixture of theological with scientific speculation This shown in the case of Melanchthon In that of Francis Bacon Theological theory of gases Growth of a scientific theory Basil Valentine and his contributions to chemistry Triumph of the scientific theory II . The Triumph of Chemistry and Physics . New epoch in chemistry begun by Boyle Attitude of the mob toward science Effect on science of the reaction following the French Revolution : ? Development of chemistry since the middle of the nineteenth century Development of physics Modern opposition to science in Catholic countries Attack of scientific education in France In England In Prussia Revolt against the subordination of education to science Effect of the International Exhibition of ii ? at London Of the endowment of State colleges in America by the Morrill Act of 1862 The results to religion CHAPTER XIII . FROM MIRACLES TO MEDICINE . I. THE EARLY AND SACRED THEORIES OF DISEASE . Naturalness of the idea of supernatural intervention in causing and curing disease Prevalence of this idea in ancient civilizations Beginnings of a scientific theory of medicine The twofold @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ OF LEGENDS OF HEALING .  --  THE LIFE OF XAVIER AS A TYPICAL EXAMPLE . Growth of legends of miracles about the lives of great benefactors of humanity Sketch of Xavier 's career Absence of miraculous accounts in his writings and those of his contemporaries Direct evidence that Xavier wrought no miracles Growth of legends of miracles as shown in the early biographies of him As shown in the canonization proceedings Naturalness of these legends III . THE MEDIAEVAL MIRACLES OF HEALING CHECK MEDICAL SCIENCE . Character of the testimony regarding miracles Connection of mediaeval with pagan miracles Their basis of fact Various kinds of miraculous cures Atmosphere of supernaturalism thrown about all cures Influence of this atmosphere on medical science IV . THE ATTRIBUTION OF DISEASE TO SATANIC INFLUENCE .  --  " PASTORAL MEDICINE " CHECKS SCIENTIFIC EFFORT . Theological theory as to the cause of disease Influence of self-interest on " pastoral medicine " Development of fetichism at Cologne and elsewhere Other developments of fetich cure V. THEOLOGICAL OPPOSITION TO ANATOMICAL STUDIES . Medieval belief in the unlawfulness of meddling with the bodies of the dead Dissection objected to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of blood " The decree of Boniface VIII and its results VI . NEW BEGINNINGS OF MEDICAL SCIENCE . Galen Scanty development of medical science in the Church Among Jews and Mohammedans Promotion of medical science by various Christian laymen of the Middle Ages By rare men of science By various ecclesiastics VII . THEOLOGICAL DISCOURAGEMENT OF MEDICINE . Opposition to seeking cure from disease by natural means Requirement of ecclesiastical advice before undertaking medical treatment Charge of magic and Mohammedanism against men of science Effect of ecclesiastical opposition to medicine The doctrine of signatures The doctrine of exorcism Theological opposition to surgery Development of miracle and fetich cures Fashion in pious cures Medicinal properties of sacred places Theological argument in favour of miraculous cures Prejudice against Jewish physicians VIII . FETICH CURES UNDER PROTESTANTISM .  --  THE ROYAL TOUCH . Luther 's theory of disease The royal touch Cures wrought by Charles II By James II By William III By Queen Anne By Louis XIV Universal acceptance of these miracles IX . THE SCIENTIFIC STRUGGLE FOR ANATOMY . Occasional encouragement of medical science in the Middle Ages New impulse given @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Paracelsus and Mundinus Vesalius , the founder of the modern science of anatomy .  --  His career and fate X. THEOLOGICAL OPPOSITION TO INOCULATION , VACCINATION , AND THE USE OF ANAESTHETICS . Theological opposition to inoculation in Europe In America Theological opposition to vaccination Recent hostility to vaccination in England In Canada , during the smallpox epidemic Theological opposition to the use of cocaine To the use of quinine Theological opposition to the use of anesthetics XI . FINAL BREAKING AWAY OF THE THEOLOGICAL THEORY IN MEDICINE . Changes incorporated in the American Book of Common Prayer Effect on the theological view of the growing knowledge of the relation between imagination and medicine Effect of the discoveries in hypnotism In bacteriology Relation between ascertained truth and the " ages of faith " CHAPTER XIV . FROM FETICH TO HYGIENE . I. THE THEOLOGICAL VIEW OF EPIDEMICS AND SANITATION . The recurrence of great pestilences Their early ascription to the wrath or malice of unseen powers Their real cause want of hygienic precaution Theological apotheosis of filth Sanction given to the sacred theory of pestilence by Pope Gregory the Great Modes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of evil Persecution of the Jews as Satan 's emissaries Persecution of witches as Satan 's emissaries Case of the Untori at Milan New developments of fetichism.  --  The blood of St. Januarius at Naples Appearance of better methods in Italy .  --  In Spain II . GRADUAL DECAY OF THEOLOGICAL VIEWS REGARDING SANITATION . Comparative freedom of England from persecutions for plague-bringing , in spite of her wretched sanitary condition Aid sought mainly through church services Effects of the great fire in London The jail fever The work of John Howard Plagues in the American colonies In France .  --  The great plague at Marseilles Persistence of the old methods in Austria In Scotland III . THE TRIUMPH OF SANITARY SCIENCE . Difficulty of reconciling the theological theory of pestilences with accumulating facts Curious approaches to a right theory The law governing the relation of theology to disease Recent victories of hygiene in all countries In England .  --  - Chadwick and his fellows In France IV . THE RELATION OF SANITARY SCIENCE TO RELIGION . The process of sanitary science not at the cost of religion Illustration from the policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ epidemics in the United States Change in the attitude of the Church toward the cause and cure of pestilence CHAPTER XV . FROM " DEMONIACAL POSSESSION " TO INSANITY . I. THEOLOGICAL IDEAS OF LUNACY AND ITS TREATMENT . The struggle for the scientific treatment of the insane The primitive ascription of insanity to evil spirits Better Greek and Roman theories  --  madness a disease The Christian Church accepts the demoniacal theory of insanity Yet for a time uses mild methods for the insane Growth of the practice of punishing the indwelling demon Two sources whence better things might have been hoped .  --  The reasons of their futility The growth of exorcism Use of whipping and torture The part of art and literature in making vivid to the common mind the idea of diabolic activity The effects of religious processions as a cure for mental disease Exorcism of animals possessed of demons Belief in the transformation of human beings into animals The doctrine of demoniacal possession in the Reformed Church II . BEGINNINGS OF A HEALTHFUL SCEPTICISM . Rivalry between Catholics and Protestants in the casting out of devils Increased @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of insanity during the witch persecutions II ? Attitude of physicians toward witchcraft I Religious hallucinations of the insane I Theories as to the modes of diabolic entrance into the possessed Influence of monastic life on the development of insanity Protests against the theological view of insanity  --  Wier , Montaigue Bekker Last struggles of the old superstition III . THE FINAL STRUGGLE AND VICTORY OF SCIENCE .  --  PINEL AND TUKE . Influence of French philosophy on the belief in demoniacal possession Reactionary influence of John Wesley Progress of scientific ideas in Prussia In Austria In America In South Germany General indifference toward the sufferings of madmen The beginnings of a more humane treatment Jean Baptiste Pinel Improvement in the treatment of the insane in England .  --  William Tuke The place of Pinel and Tuke in history CHAPTER XVI . FROM DIABOLISM TO HYSTERIA . I. THE EPIDEMICS OF " POSSESSION . " Survival of the belief in diabolic activity as the cause of such epidemics Epidemics of hysteria in classical times In the Middle Ages The dancing mania Inability of science during the fifteenth century to cope with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ medical research during the sixteenth century Dying-out of this form of mental disease in northern Europe In Italy Epidemics of hysteria in the convents The case of Martha Brossier Revival in France of belief in diabolic influence The Ursulines of Loudun and Urbain Grandier Possession among the Huguenots In New England .  --  The Salem witch persecution At Paris .  --  Alleged miracles at the grave of Archdeacon Paris In Germany .  --  Case of Maria Renata Sanger More recent outbreaks II . BEGINNINGS OF HELPFUL SCEPTICISM . Outbreaks of hysteria in factories and hospitals In places of religious excitement The case at Morzine Similar cases among Protestants and in Africa III . THEOLOGICAL " RESTATEMENTS. "  --  FINAL TRIUMPH OF THE SCIENTIFIC VIEW AND METHODS . Successful dealings of medical science with mental diseases Attempts to give a scientific turn to the theory of diabolic agency in disease Last great demonstration of the old belief in England Final triumph of science in the latter half of the present century Last echoes of the old belief CHAPTER XVII . FROM BABEL TO COMPARATIVE PHILOLOGY . I. THE SACRED THEORY IN ITS @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from that of other sciences as regards the attitude of theologians Curiosity of early man regarding the origin , the primitive form , and the diversity of language The Hebrew answer to these questions The legend of the Tower of Babel The real reason for the building of towers by the Chaldeans and the causes of their ruin Other legends of a confusion of tongues Influence upon Christendom of the Hebrew legends Lucretius 's theory of the origin of language The teachings of the Church fathers on this subject The controversy as to the divine origin of the Hebrew vowel points Attitude of the reformers toward this question Of Catholic scholars .  --  Marini Capellus and his adversaries The treatise of Danzius II . THE SACRED THEORY OF LANGUAGE IN ITS SECOND FORM . Theological theory that Hebrew was the primitive tongue , divinely revealed This theory supported by all Christian scholars until the beginning of the eighteenth century Dissent of Prideaux and Cotton Mather Apparent strength of the sacred theory of language III . BREAKING DOWN OF THE THEOLOGICAL VIEW . Reason for the Church 's ready acceptance of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ language Hottinger Leibnitz The collections of Catharine the Great , of Hervas , and of Adelung Chaotic period in philology between Leibnitz and the beginning of the study of Sanskrit Illustration from the successive editions of the Encyclopaedia Britannica IV . TRIUMPH OF THE NEW SCIENCE . Effect of the discovery of Sanskrit on the old theory Attempts to discredit the new learning General acceptance of the new theory Destruction of the belief that all created things were first named by Adam Of the belief in the divine origin of letters Attempts in England to support the old theory of language rogress of philological science in France In Germany In Great Britain Recent absurd attempts to prove Hebrew the primitive tongue V. SUMMARY . Gradual disappearance of the old theories regarding the origin of speech and writing Full acceptance of the new theories by all Christian scholars The result to religion , and to the Bible CHAPTER XVIII . FROM THE DEAD SEA LEGENDS TO COMPARATIVE MYTHOLOGY , I. THE GROWTH OF EXPLANATORY TRANSFORMATION MYTHS . Growth of myths to account for remarkable appearances in Nature  --  mountains , rocks , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Myths of the transformation of living beings into natural objects Development of the science of Comparative Mythology II . MEDIAEVAL GROWTH OF THE DEAD SEA LEGENDS . Description of the Dead Sea Impression made by its peculiar features on the early dwellers in Palestine Reasons for selecting the Dead Sea myths for study Naturalness of the growth of legend regarding the salt region of Usdum Universal belief in these legends Concurrent testimony of early and mediaeval writers , Jewish and Christian , respecting the existence of Lot 's wife as a " pillar of salt , " and of the other wonders of the Dead Sea Discrepancies in the various accounts and theological explanations of them Theological arguments respecting the statue of Lot 's wife Growth of the legend in the sixteenth century III . POST-REFORMATION CULMINATION OF THE DEAD SEA LEGENDS .  --  BEGINNINGS OF A HEALTHFUL SCEPTICISM . Popularization of the older legends at the Reformation Growth of new myths among scholars Signs of scepticism among travellers near the end of the sixteenth century Effort of Quaresmio to check this tendency Of Eugene Roger Of Wedelius Influence of these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Briemle and Masius in support of the old myths Their influence The travels of Mariti and of Volney Influence of scientific thought on the Dead Sea legends during the eighteenth century Reactionary efforts of Chateaubriand Investigations of the naturalist Seetzen Of Dr. Robinson The expedition of Lieutenant Lynch The investigations of De Saulcy Of the Duc de Luynes.  --  Lartet 's report Summary of the investigations of the nineteenth century .  --  Ritter 's verdict IV . THEOLOGICAL EFFORTS AT COMPROMISE .  --  TRIUMPH OF THE SCIENTIFIC VIEW . Attempts to reconcile scientific facts with the Dead Sea legends Van de Velde 's investigations of the Dead Sea region Canon Tristram 's Mgr . Mislin 's protests against the growing rationalism The work of Schaff and Osborn Acceptance of the scientific view by leaders in the Church Dr. Geikie 's ascription of the myths to the Arabs Mgr . Haussmann de Wandelburg and.his rejection of the scientific view Service of theologians to religion in accepting the conclusions of silence in this field CHAPTER XIX . FROM LEVITICUS TO POLITICAL ECONOMY I. ORIGIN AND PROGRESS OF HOSTILITY TO LOANS AT INTEREST @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interest The taking of interest among the Greeks and Romans Opposition of leaders of thought , especially Aristotle Condemnation of the practice by the Old and New Testaments By the Church fathers In ecclesiastical and secular legislation Exception sometimes made in behalf of the Jews Hostility of the pulpit Of the canon law Evil results of the prohibition of loans at interest Efforts to induce the Church to change her position Theological evasions of the rule Attitude of the Reformers toward the taking of interest Struggle in England for recognition of the right to accept interest Invention of a distinction between usury and interest II . RETREAT OF THE CHURCH , PROTESTANT AND CATHOLIC . Sir Robert Filmer 's attack on the old doctrine Retreat of the Protestant Church in Holland In Germany and America Difficulties in the way of compromise in the Catholic Church Failure of such attempts in France Theoretical condemnation of usury in Italy Disregard of all restrictions in practice Attempts of Escobar and Liguori to reconcile the taking of interest with the teachings of the Church Montesquieu 's attack on the old theory Encyclical of Benedict XIV @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Rome Final retreat of the Catholic Church Curious dealings of theology with public economy in other fields CHAPTER XX . FROM THE DIVINE ORACLES TO THE HIGHER CRITICISM . I. THE OLDER INTERPRETATION . Character of the great sacred books of the world General laws governing the development and influence of sacred literature .  --  The law of its origin Legends concerning the Septuagint The law of wills and causes The law of inerrancy Hostility to the revision of King James 's translation of the Bible The law of unity Working of these laws seen in the great rabbinical schools The law of allegorical interpretation Philo Judaeus Justin Martyr and Clement of Alexandria Occult significance of numbers Origen Hilary of Poitiers and Jerome Augustine Gregory the Great Vain attempts to check the flood of allegorical interpretations Bede .  --  Savonarola Methods of modern criticism for the first time employed by Lorenzo Valla Erasmus Influence of the Reformation on the belief in the infallibility of the sacred books .  --  Luther and Melanchthon Development of scholasticism in the Reformed Church Catholic belief in the inspiration of the Vulgate Opposition in Russia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a commentator Scriptural interpretation at the beginning of the eighteenth century II . BEGINNINGS OF SCIENTIFIC INTERPRETATION . Theological beliefs regarding the Pentateuch The book of Genesis Doubt thrown on the sacred theory by Aben Ezra By Carlstadt and Maes Influence of the discovery that the Isidorian Decretals were forgeries That the writings ascribed to Dionysius the Areopagite were serious Hobbes and La Peyrere Spinoza Progress of biblical criticism in France .  --  Richard Simon LeClerc Bishop Lowth Astruc Eichhorn 's application of the " higher criticism " to biblical research Isenbiehl Herder Alexander Geddes Opposition to the higher criticism in Germany Hupfeld Vatke and Reuss Kuenen Wellhausen III . THE CONTINUED GROWTH OF SCIENTIFIC INTERPRETATION . Progress of the higher criticism in Germany and Holland Opposition to it in England At the University of Oxford Pusey Bentley Wolf Niebuhr and Arnold Milman Thirlwall and Grote The publication of Essays and Reviews , and the storm raised by book IV . THE CLOSING STRUGGLE . Colenso 's work on the Pentateuch The persecution of him Bishop Wilberforce 's part in it Dean Stanley 's Bishop Thirlwall 's Results of Colenso @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mundi Progress of biblical criticism among the dissenters In France .  --  Renan In the Roman Catholic Church The encyclical letter of Pope Leo XIII In America .  --  Theodore Parker Apparent strength of the old theory of inspiration Real strength of the new movement V. VICTORY OF THE SCIENTIFIC AND LITERARY METHODS . Confirmation of the conclusions of the higher criticism by Assyriology and Egyptology Light thrown upon Hebrew religion by the translation of the sacred books of the East The influence of Persian thought .  --  The work of the Rev. Dr. Mills The influence of Indian thought .  --  Light thrown by the study of Brahmanism and Buddhism The work of Fathers Huc and Gabet Discovery that Buddha himself had been canonized as a Christian saint Similarity between the ideas and legends of Buddhism and those of Christianity The application of the higher criticism to the New Testament The English " Revised Version " of Studies on the formation of the canon of Scripture Recognition of the laws governing its development Change in the spirit of the controversy over the higher criticism VI . RECONSTRUCTIVE FORCE OF SCIENTIFIC @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three centuries Action of modern science in reconstruction of religious truth Change wrought by it in the conception of a sacred literature Of the Divine Power .  --  Of man .  --  - Of the world at large Of our Bible I. THE VISIBLE UNIVERSE . Among those masses of cathedral sculpture which preserve so much of medieval theology , one frequently recurring group is noteworthy for its presentment of a time-honoured doctrine regarding the origin of the universe . The Almighty , in human form , sits benignly , making the sun , moon , and stars , and hanging them from the solid firmament which supports the " heaven above " and overarches the " earth beneath . " The furrows of thought on the Creator 's brow show that in this work he is obliged to contrive ; the knotted muscles upon his arms show that he is obliged to toil ; naturally , then , the sculptors and painters of the medieval and early modern period frequently represented him as the writers whose conceptions they embodied had done  --  as , on the seventh day , weary after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the hosts of heaven . In these thought-fossils of the cathedrals , and in other revelations of the same idea through sculpture , painting , glass-staining , mosaic work , and engraving , during the Middle Ages and the two centuries following , culminated a belief which had been developed through thousands of years , and which has determined the world 's thought until our own time . Its beginnings lie far back in human history ; we find them among the early records of nearly all the great civilizations , and they hold a most prominent place in the various sacred books of the world . In nearly all of them is revealed the conception of a Creator of whom man is an imperfect image , and who literally and directly created the visible universe with his hands and fingers . Among these theories , of especial interest to us are those which controlled theological thought in Chaldea . The Assyrian inscriptions which have been recently recovered and given to the English-speaking peoples by Layard , George Smith , Sayce , and others , show that in the ancient @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the creation which , in its most important features , must have been the source of that in our own sacred books . It has now become perfectly clear that from the same sources which inspired the accounts of the creation of the universe among the Chaldeo-Babylonian , the Assyrian , the Phoenician , and other ancient civilizations came the ideas which hold so prominent a place in the sacred books of the Hebrews . In the two accounts imperfectly fused together in Genesis , and also in the account of which we have indications in the book of Job and in the Proverbs , there , is presented , often with the greatest sublimity , the same early conception of the Creator and of the creation  --  the conception , so natural in the childhood of civilization , of a Creator who is an enlarged human being working literally with his own hands , and of a creation which is " the work of his fingers . " To supplement this view there was developed the belief in this Creator as one who , having . . . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ space . " sits on high , enthroned " upon the circle of the heavens , " perpetually controlling and directing them . From this idea of creation was evolved in time a somewhat nobler view . Ancient thinkers , and especially , as is now found , in Egypt , suggested that the main agency in creation was not the hands and fingers of the Creator , but his VOICE . Hence was mingled with the earlier , cruder belief regarding the origin of the earth and heavenly bodies by the Almighty the more impressive idea that " he spake and they were made "  --  that they were brought into existence by his WORD. 1 1 Among the many mediaeval representations of the creation of the universe , I especially recall from personal observation those sculptured above the portals of the cathedrals of Freiburg and Upsala , the paintings on the walls of the Campo Santo at Pisa , and most striking of all , the mosaics of the Cathedral of Monreale and those in the Capella Palatina at Palermo . Among peculiarities showing the simplicity of the earlier @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the seventh day is very striking . He is shown as seated in almost the exact attitude of the " Weary Mercury " of classic sculpture  --  bent , and with a very marked expression of fatigue upon his countenance and in the whole disposition of his body . The Monreale mosaics are pictured in the great work of Gravina , and in the Pisa frescoes in Didron 's Iconographie , Paris , 1843 , p. 598 . For an exact statement of the resemblances which have settled the question among the most eminent scholars in favour of the derivation of the Hebrew cosmogony from that of Assyria , see Jensen , Die Kosmologie der Babylonier , Strassburg , 1890 , pp. 304,306 ; also Franz Lukas , Die Grundbegriffe in den Kosmographien der alten Volker , Leipsic , 1893 , pp. 35-46 ; also George Smith 's Chaldean Genesis , especially the German translation with additions by Delitzsch , Leipsic , 1876 , and Schrader , Die Keilinschriften und das Alte Testament , Giessen , 1883 , pp. 1-54 , etc . See also Renan , Histoire du peuple d'Israel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . For Egyptian views regarding creation , and especially for the transition from the idea of creation by the hands and fingers of the Creator to creation by his VOICE and his " word , " see Maspero and Sayce , The Dawn of Civilization , pp. 145-146 . Among the early fathers of the Church this general view of creation became fundamental ; they impressed upon Christendom more and more strongly the belief that the universe was created in a perfectly literal sense by the hands or voice of God . Here and there sundry theologians of larger mind attempted to give a more spiritual view regarding some parts of the creative work , and of these were St. Gregory of Nyssa and St. Augustine . Ready as they were to accept the literal text of Scripture , they revolted against the conception of an actual creation of the universe by the hands and fingers of a Supreme Being , and in this they were followed by Bede and a few others ; but the more material conceptions prevailed , and we find these taking shape not only in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the illuminations of missals and psalters , but later , at the close of the Middle Ages , in the pictured Bibles and in general literature . Into the Anglo-Saxon mind this ancient material conception of the creation was riveted by two poets whose works appealed especially to the deeper religious feelings . In the seventh century Caedmon paraphrased the account given in Genesis , bringing out this material conception in the most literal form ; and a thousand years later Milton developed out of the various statements in the Old Testament , mingled with a theology regarding " the creative Word " which had been drawn from the New , his description of the creation by the second person in the Trinity , than which nothing could be more literal and material : " He took the golden compasses , prepared In God 's eternal store , to circumscribe This universe and all created things . One foot he centred , and the other turned Round through the vast profundity obscure , And said , Thus far extend , thus far thy bounds : This be thy just circumference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Nyssa , Augustine , and the general subject of the development of an evolution theory among the Greeks , see the excellent work by Dr. Osborn , From the Greeks to Darwin , pp.33 and following ; for Caedmon , see any edition  --  I have used Bouterwek 's , Gutersloh , 1854 ; for Milton , see Paradise Lost , book vii , lines 225-231 . So much for the orthodox view of the MANNER of creation . The next point developed in this theologic evolution had reference to the MATTER of which the universe was made , and it was decided by an overwhelming majority that no material substance existed before the creation of the material universe  --  that " God created everything out of nothing . " Some venturesome thinkers , basing their reasoning upon the first verses of Genesis , hinted at a different view  --  namely , that the mass , " without form and void , " existed before the universe ; but this doctrine was soon swept out of sight . The vast majority of the fathers were explicit on this point . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other view than that generally accepted as orthodox : he declared that , if there had been any pre-existing matter out of which the world was formed , Scripture would have mentioned it ; that by not mentioning it God has given us a clear proof that there was no such thing ; and , after a manner not unknown in other theological controversies , he threatens Hermogenes , who takes the opposite view , with the woe which impends on all who add to or take away from the written word . " St. Augustine , who showed signs of a belief in a pre-existence of matter , made his peace with the prevailing belief by the simple reasoning that , " although the world has been made of some material , that very same material must have been made out of nothing . " In the wake of these great men the universal Church steadily followed . The Fourth Lateran Council declared that God created everything out of nothing ; and at the present hour the vast majority of the faithful  --  whether Catholic or Protestant  --  are taught @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pius IX and the Westminster Catechism fully agree. 3 3 For Tertullian , see Tertullian against Hermogenes , chaps . xx and xxii ; for St. Augustine regarding " creation from nothing , " see the De Genesi contra Manichaeos , lib , i , cap . vi ; for St. Ambrose , see the Hexameron , lib , i , cap iv ; for the decree of the Fourth Lateran Council , and the view received in the Church to-day , see the article Creation in Addis and Arnold 's Catholic Dictionary . Having thus disposed of the manner and matter of creation , the next subject taken up by theologians was the TIME required for the great work . Here came a difficulty . The first of the two accounts given in Genesis extended the creative operation through six days , each of an evening and a morning , with much explicit detail regarding the progress made in each . But the second account spoke of " THE DAY " in which " the Lord God made the earth and the heavens . " The explicitness of the first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mass of early theologians gave it at first a decided advantage ; but Jewish thinkers , like Philo , and Christian thinkers , like Origen , forming higher conceptions of the Creator and his work , were not content with this , and by them was launched upon the troubled sea of Christian theology the idea that the creation was instantaneous , this idea being strengthened not only by the second of the Genesis legends , but by the great text , " He spake , and it was done ; he commanded , and it stood fast "  --  or , as it appears in the Vulgate and in most translations , " He spake , and they were made ; he commanded , and they were created . " As a result , it began to be held that the safe and proper course was to believe literally BOTH statements ; that in some mysterious manner God created the universe in six days , and yet brought it all into existence in a moment . In spite of the outcries of sundry great theologians , like Ephrem Syrus , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ twenty-four hours each , this compromise was promoted by St. Athanasius and St. Basil in the East , and by St. Augustine and St. Hilary in the West . Serious difficulties were found in reconciling these two views , which to the natural mind seem absolutely contradictory ; but by ingenious manipulation of texts , by dexterous play upon phrases , and by the abundant use of metaphysics to dissolve away facts , a reconciliation was effected , and men came at least to believe that they believed in a creation of the universe instantaneous and at the same time extended through six days. 4 4 For Origen , see his Contra Celsum , cap xxxvi , xxxvii ; also his De Principibus , cap . v ; for St. Augustine , see his De Genesi conta Manichaeos and De Genesi ad Litteram , passim ; for Athanasius , see his Discourses against the Arians , ii , 48,49 . Some of the efforts to reconcile these two accounts were so fruitful as to deserve especial record . The fathers , Eastern and Western , developed out of the double account @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Proverbs , and the book of Job , a vast mass of sacred science bearing upon this point . As regards the whole work of creation , stress was laid upon certain occult powers in numerals . Philo Judaeus , while believing in an instantaneous creation , had also declared that the world was created in six days because " of all numbers six is the most productive " ; he had explained the creation of the heavenly bodies on the fourth day by " the harmony of the number four " ; of the animals on the fifth day by the five senses ; of man on the sixth day by the same virtues in the number six which had caused it to be set as a limit to the creative work ; and , greatest of all , the rest on the seventh day by the vast mass of mysterious virtues in the number seven . St. Jerome held that the reason why God did not pronounce the work of the second day " good " is to be found in the fact that there is something essentially @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ centuries afterward , afar off in Britain , by Bede . St. Augustine brought this view to bear upon the Church in the following statement : " There are three classes of numbers  --  the more than perfect , the perfect , and the less than perfect , according as the sum of them is greater than , equal to , or less than the original number . Six is the first perfect number : wherefore we must not say that six is a perfect number because God finished all his works in six days , but that God finished all his works in six days because six is a perfect number . " Reasoning of this sort echoed along through the mediaeval Church until a year after the discovery of America , when the Nuremberg Chronicle re-echoed it as follows : " The creation of things is explained by the number six , the parts of which , one , two , and three , assume the form of a triangle . " This view of the creation of the universe as instantaneous and also as in six days , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ became virtually universal . Peter Lombard and Hugo of St. Victor , authorities of vast weight , gave it their sanction in the twelfth century , and impressed it for ages upon the mind of the Church . Both these lines of speculation  --  as to the creation of everything out of nothing , and the reconciling of the instantaneous creation of the universe with its creation in six days  --  were still further developed by other great thinkers of the Middle Ages . St. Hilary of Poictiers reconciled the two conceptions as follows : " For , although according to Moses there is an appearance of regular order in the fixing of the firmament , the laying bare of the dry land , the gathering together of the waters , the formation of the heavenly bodies , and the arising of living things from land and water , yet the creation of the heavens , earth , and other elements is seen to be the work of a single moment . " St. Thomas Aquinas drew from St. Augustine a subtle distinction which for ages eased the difficulties in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ substance of things in a moment , but gave to the work of separating , shaping , and adorning this creation , six days. 5 5 For Philo Judaeus , see his Creation of the World , chap . iii ; for St. Augustine on the powers of numbers in creation , see his De Genesi ad Litteram iv , chap . ii ; for Peter Lombard , see the Sententiae , lib. ii , dist. xv , 5 ; and for Hugo of St. Victor , see De Sacrementis , lib i , pars i ; also , Annotat , Elucidat in Pentateuchum , cap . v , vi , vii ; for St. Hilary , see De Trinitate , lib. xii ; for St. Thomas Aquinas , see his Summa Theologica , quest lxxxiv , arts . i and ii ; the passage in the Nuremberg Chronicle , 1493 , is in fol. iii ; for Vousset , see his Discours sur l'Histoire Universelle ; for the sacredness of the number seven among the Babylonians , see especially Schrader , Die Keilinschriften und das Alte Testament , pp. 21,22 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the occult powers of various numbers , especially the number seven , and the influence of these ideas on theology and science , see my chapter on astronomy . As to medieaval ideas on the same subject , see Detzel , Christliche Ikonographie , Frieburg , 1894 , pp. 44 and following . The early reformers accepted and developed the same view , and Luther especially showed himself equal to the occasion . With his usual boldness he declared , first , that Moses " spoke properly and plainly , and neither allegorically nor figuratively , " and that therefore " the world with all creatures was created in six days . " And he then goes on to show how , by a great miracle , the whole creation was also instantaneous . Melanchthon also insisted that the universe was created out of nothing and in a mysterious way , both in an instant and in six days , citing the text : " He spake , and they were made . " Calvin opposed the idea of an instantaneous creation , and laid especial stress on the creation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the biblical chronology shows the world to be not quite six thousand years old and that it is now near its end , he says that " creation was extended through six days that it might not be tedious for us to occupy the whole of life in the consideration of it . " Peter Martyr clinched the matter by declaring : " So important is it to comprehend the work of creation that we see the creed of the Church take this as its starting point . Were this article taken away there would be no original sin , the promise of Christ would become void , and all the vital force of our religion would be destroyed . " The Westminster divines in drawing up their Confession of Faith specially laid it down as necessary to believe that all things visible and invisible were created not only out of nothing but in exactly six days . Nor were the Roman divines less strenuous than the Protestant reformers regarding the necessity of holding closely to the so-called Mosaic account of creation . As late as the middle of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ truths , the theological faculty of the Sorbonne forced him to make and to publish a most ignominious recantation which ended with these words : " I abandon everything in my book respecting the formation of the earth , and generally all which may be contrary to the narrative of Moses . " Theologians , having thus settled the manner of the creation , the matter used in it , and the time required for it , now exerted themselves to fix its DATE . The long series of efforts by the greatest minds in the Church , from Eusebius to Archbishop Usher , to settle this point are presented in another chapter . Suffice it here that the general conclusion arrived at by an overwhelming majority of the most competent students of the biblical accounts was that the date of creation was , in round numbers , four thousand years before our era ; and in the seventeenth century , in his great work , Dr. John Lightfoot , Vice-Chancellor of the University of Cambridge , and one of the most eminent Hebrew scholars of his time , declared , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Scriptures , that " heaven and earth , centre and circumference , were created all together , in the same instant , and clouds full of water , " and that " this work took place and man was created by the Trinity on October 23 , 4004 B. C. , at nine o'clock in the morning . " Here was , indeed , a triumph of Lactantius 's method , the result of hundreds of years of biblical study and theological thought since Bede in the eighth century , and Vincent of Beauvais in the thirteenth , had declared that creation must have taken place in the spring . Yet , alas ! within two centuries after Lightfoot 's great biblical demonstration as to the exact hour of creation , it was discovered that at that hour an exceedingly cultivated people , enjoying all the fruits of a highly developed civilization , had long been swarming in the great cities of Egypt , and that other nations hardly less advanced had at that time reached a high development in Asia. 6 6 For Luther , see his Commentary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on chap . i , verse 12 ; the quotations from Luther 's commentary are taken mainly from the translation by Henry Cole , D.D. , Edinburgh , 1858 ; for Melanchthon , see Loci Theologici , in Melanchthon , Opera , ed . Bretschneider , vol. xxi , pp. 269 , 270 , also pp. 637 , 638  --  in quoting the text ( Ps. xxiii , 9 ) I have used , as does Melanchthon himself , the form of the Vulgate ; for the citations from Calvin , see his Commentary on Genesis ( Opera omnia , Amsterdam , 1671 , tom . i , cap . ii , p. 8 ) ; also in the Institutes , Allen 's translation , London , 1838 , vol. i , chap . xv , pp. 126,127 ; for the Peter Martyr , see his Commentary on Genesis , cited by Zockler , vol. i , p. 690 ; for articles in the Westminster Confession of Faith , see chap . iv ; for Buffon 's recantation , see Lyell , Principles of Geology , chap iii , p. 57 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ edited by Pitman , London , 1822 . But , strange as it may seem , even after theologians had thus settled the manner of creation , the matter employed in it , the time required for it , and the exact date of it , there remained virtually unsettled the first and greatest question of all ; and this was nothing less than the question , WHO actually created the universe ? Various theories more or less nebulous , but all centred in texts of Scripture , had swept through the mind of the Church . By some theologians it was held virtually that the actual creative agent was the third person of the Trinity , who , in the opening words of our sublime creation poem , " moved upon the face of the waters . " By others it was held that the actual Creator was the second person of the Trinity , in behalf of whose agency many texts were cited from the New Testament . Others held that the actual Creator was the first person , and this view was embodied in the two great formulas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ explicitly assigned the work to " God the Father Almighty , Maker of heaven and earth . " Others , finding a deep meaning in the words " Let US make , " ascribed in Genesis to the Creator , held that the entire Trinity directly created all things ; and still others , by curious metaphysical processes , seemed to arrive at the idea that peculiar combinations of two persons of the Trinity achieved the creation . In all this there would seem to be considerable courage in view of the fearful condemnations launched in the Athanasian Creed against all who should " confound the persons " or " divide the substance of the Trinity . " These various stages in the evolution of scholastic theology were also embodied in sacred art , and especially in cathedral sculpture , in glass-staining , in mosaic working , and in missal painting . The creative Being is thus represented sometimes as the third person of the Trinity , in the form of a dove brooding over chaos ; sometimes as the second person , and therefore a youth ; sometimes as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the first and second persons , one being venerable and the other youthful ; and sometimes as three persons , one venerable and one youthful , both wearing papal crowns , and each holding in his lips a tip of the wing of the dove , which thus seems to proceed from both and to be suspended between them . Nor was this the most complete development of the medieval idea . The Creator was sometimes represented with a single body , but with three faces , thus showing that Christian belief had in some pious minds gone through substantially the same cycle which an earlier form of belief had made ages before in India , when the Supreme Being was represented with one body but with the three faces of Brahma , Vishnu , and Siva . But at the beginning of the modern period the older view in its primitive Jewish form was impressed upon Christians by the most mighty genius in art the world has known ; for in 1512 , after four years of Titanic labour , Michael Angelo uncovered his frescoes within the vault of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ command and under the sanction of the ruling Pope , Julius II , to represent the conception of Christian theology then dominant , and they remain to-day in all their majesty to show the highest point ever attained by the older thought upon the origin of the visible universe . In the midst of the expanse of heaven the Almighty Father  --  the first person of the Trinity  --  in human form , august and venerable , attended by angels and upborne by mighty winds , sweeps over the abyss , and , moving through successive compartments of the great vault , accomplishes the work of the creative days . With a simple gesture he divides the light from the darkness , rears on high the solid firmament , gathers together beneath it the seas , or summons into existence the sun , moon , and planets , and sets them circling about the earth . In this sublime work culminated the thought of thousands of years ; the strongest minds accepted it or pretended to accept it , and nearly two centuries later this conception , in accordance with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ especially enforced by Bossuet , and received a new lease of life in the Church , both Catholic and Protestant. 7 7 For strange representations of the Creator and of the creation by one , two , or three persons of the Trinity , see Didron , Iconographie Chretienne , pp. 35 , 178 , 224 , 483 , 567-580 , and elsewhere ; also Detzel as already cited . The most naive of all survivals of the mediaeval idea of creation which the present writer has ever seen was exhibited in 1894 on the banner of one of the guilds at the celebration of the four-hundredth anniversary of the founding of the Munich Cathedral . Jesus of Nazareth , as a beautiful boy and with a nimbus encircling his head , was shown turning and shaping the globe on a lathe , which he keeps in motion with his foot . The emblems of the Passion are about him , God the Father looking approvingly upon him from a cloud , and the dove hovering between the two . The date upon the banner was 1727 . But to these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the early days of the Church , was handed down the ages until it had died out among the theologians of our own time . In the first of the biblical accounts light is created and the distinction between day and night thereby made on the first day , while the sun and moon are not created until the fourth day . Masses of profound theological and pseudo-scientific reasoning have been developed to account for this  --  masses so great that for ages they have obscured the simple fact that the original text is a precious revelation to us of one of the most ancient of recorded beliefs  --  the belief that light and darkness are entities independent of the heavenly bodies , and that the sun , moon , and stars exist not merely to increase light but to " divide the day from the night , to be for signs and for seasons , and for days and for years , " and " to rule the day and the night . " Of this belief we find survivals among the early fathers , and especially in St. Ambrose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " We must remember that the light of day is one thing and the light of the sun , moon , and stars another  --  the sun by his rays appearing to add lustre to the daylight . For before sunrise the day dawns , but is not in full refulgence , for the sun adds still further to its splendour . " This idea became one of the " treasures of sacred knowledge committed to the Church , " and was faithfully received by the Middle Ages . The medieval mysteries and miracle plays give curious evidences of this : In a performance of the creation , when God separates light from darkness , the stage direction is , " Now a painted cloth is to be exhibited , one half black and the other half white . " It was also given more permanent form . In the mosaics of San Marco at Venice , in the frescoes of the Baptistery at Florence and of the Church of St. Francis at Assisi , and in the altar carving at Salerno , we find a striking realization of it  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ figures of equal size , each suitably coloured or inscribed to show that one represents light and the other darkness . This conception was without doubt that of the person or persons who compiled from the Chaldean and other earlier statements the accounts of the creation in the first of our sacred books. 8 8 For scriptural indications of the independent existence of light and darkness , compare with the first verses of the chapter of Genesis such passages as Job xxxviii , 19,24 ; for the general prevalence of this early view , see Lukas , Kosmogonie , pp. 31 , 33 , 41 , 74 , and passim ; for the view of St. Ambrose regarding the creation of light and of the sun , see his Hexameron , lib. 4 , cap . iii ; for an excellent general statement , see Huxley , Mr. Gladstone and Genesis , in the Nineteenth Century , 1886 , reprinted in his Essays on Controverted Questions , London , 1892 , note , pp. 126 et seq. ; for the acceptance in the miracle plays of the scriptural idea of light @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on Archeological Subjects , vol. ii , p.178 ; for an account , with illustrations , of the mosaics , etc. , representing this idea , see Tikkanen , Die Genesis-mosaiken von San Marco , Helsingfors , 1889 , p. 14 and 16 of the text and Plates I and II . Very naively the Salerno carver , not wishing to colour the ivory which he wrought , has inscribed on one disk the word " LUX " and on the other " NOX . " See also Didron , Iconographie , p. 482 . Thus , down to a period almost within living memory , it was held , virtually " always , everywhere , and by all , " that the universe , as we now see it , was created literally and directly by the voice or hands of the Almighty , or by both  --  out of nothing  --  in an instant or in six days , or in both  --  about four thousand years before the Christian era  --  and for the convenience of the dwellers upon the earth , which was at the base and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ implanted along through the ages germs of another growth in human thinking , some of them even as early as the Babylonian period . In the Assyrian inscriptions we find recorded the Chaldeo-Babylonian idea of AN EVOLUTION of the universe out of the primeval flood or " great deep , " and of the animal creation out of the earth and sea . This idea , recast , partially at least , into monotheistic form , passed naturally into the sacred books of the neighbours and pupils of the Chaldeans  --  the Hebrews ; but its growth in Christendom afterward was checked , as we shall hereafter find , by the more powerful influence of other inherited statements which appealed more intelligibly to the mind of the Church . Striking , also , was the effect of this idea as rewrought by the early Ionian philosophers , to whom it was probably transmitted from the Chaldeans through the Phoenicians . In the minds of Ionians like Anaximander and Anaximenes it was most clearly developed : the first of these conceiving of the visible universe as the result of processes of evolution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reasoning , and dwelling on agencies in cosmic development recognised in modern science . This general idea of evolution in Nature thus took strong hold upon Greek thought and was developed in many ways , some ingenious , some perverse . Plato , indeed , withstood it ; but Aristotle sometimes developed it in a manner which reminds us of modern views . Among the Romans Lucretius caught much from it , extending the evolutionary process virtually to all things . In the early Church , as we have seen , the idea of a creation direct , material , and by means like those used by man , was all-powerful for the exclusion of conceptions based on evolution . From the more simple and crude of the views of creation given in the Babylonian legends , and thence incorporated into Genesis , rose the stream of orthodox thought on the subject , which grew into a flood and swept on through the Middle Ages and into modern times . Yet here and there in the midst of this flood were high grounds of thought held by strong men . Scotus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ though they were , had caught some rays of this ancient light , and passed on to their successors , in modified form , doctrines of an evolutionary process in the universe . In the latter half of the sixteenth century these evolutionary theories seemed to take more definite form in the mind of Giordano Bruno , who evidently divined the fundamental idea of what is now known as the " nebular hypothesis " ; but with his murder by the Inquisition at Rome this idea seemed utterly to disappear  --  dissipated by the flames which in 1600 consumed his body on the Campo dei Fiori . Yet within the two centuries divided by Bruno 's death the world was led into a new realm of thought in which an evolution theory of the visible universe was sure to be rapidly developed . For there came , one after the other , five of the greatest men our race has produced  --  Copernicus , Kepler , Galileo , Descartes , and Newton  --  and when their work was done the old theological conception of the universe was gone . " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ "  --  the Almighty enthroned upon " the circle of the heavens , " and with his own lands , or with angels as his agents , keeping sun , moon , and planets in motion for the benefit of the earth , opening and closing the " windows of heaven , " letting down upon the earth the " waters above the firmament , " " setting his bow in the cloud , " hanging out " signs and wonders , " hurling comets , " casting forth lightnings " to scare the wicked , and " shaking the earth " in his wrath : all this had disappeared . These five men had given a new divine revelation to the world ; and through the last , Newton , had come a vast new conception , destined to be fatal to the old theory of creation , for he had shown throughout the universe , in place of almighty caprice , all-pervading law . The bitter opposition of theology to the first four of these men is well known ; but the fact is not so widely known that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was also strongly opposed . It was vigorously urged against him that by his statement of the law of gravitation he " took from God that direct action on his works so constantly ascribed to him in Scripture and transferred it to material mechanism , " and that he " substituted gravitation for Providence . " But , more than this , these men gave a new basis for the theory of evolution as distinguished from the theory of creation . Especially worthy of note is it that the great work of Descartes , erroneous as many of its deductions were , and , in view of the lack of physical knowledge in his time , must be , had done much to weaken the old conception . His theory of a universe brought out of all-pervading matter , wrought into orderly arrangement by movements in accordance with physical laws  --  though it was but a provisional hypothesis  --  had done much to draw men 's minds from the old theological view of creation ; it was an example of intellectual honesty arriving at errors , but thereby aiding the advent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ morbid fear of the Church , this part of his work was no small factor in bringing in that attitude of mind which led to a reception of the thoughts of more unfettered thinkers . Thirty years later came , in England , an effort of a different sort , but with a similar result . In 1678 Ralph Cudworth published his Intellectual System of the Universe . To this day he remains , in breadth of scholarship , in strength of thought , in tolerance , and in honesty , one of the greatest glories of the English Church , and his work was worthy of him . He purposed to build a fortress which should protect Christianity against all dangerous theories of the universe , ancient or modern . The foundations of the structure were laid with old thoughts thrown often into new and striking forms ; but , as the superstructure arose more and more into view , while genius marked every part of it , features appeared which gave the rigidly orthodox serious misgivings . From the old theories of direct personal action on the universe by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ action of law , rejected the continuous exercise of miraculous intervention , pointed out the fact that in the natural world there are " errors " and " bungles , " and argued vigorously in favour of the origin and maintenance of the universe as a slow and gradual development of Nature in obedience to an inward principle . The Balaks of seventeenth-century orthodoxy might well condemn this honest Balaam . Toward the end of the next century a still more profound genius , Immanuel Kant , presented the nebular theory , giving it , in the light of Newton 's great utterances , a consistency which it never before had ; and about the same time Laplace gave it yet greater strength by mathematical reasonings of wonderful power and extent , thus implanting firmly in modern thought the idea that our own solar system and others  --  suns , planets , satellites , and their various movements , distances , and magnitudes  --  necessarily result from the obedience of nebulous masses to natural laws . Throughout the theological world there was an outcry at once against " atheism , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many nebulous patches apparently gaseous . They showed by physical and mathematical demonstrations that the hypothesis accounted for the great body of facts , and , despite clamour , were gaining ground , when the improved telescopes resolved some of the patches of nebulous matter into multitudes of stars . The opponents of the nebular hypothesis were overjoyed ; they now sang paeans to astronomy , because , as they said , it had proved the truth of Scripture . They had jumped to the conclusion that all nebula must be alike ; that , if SOME are made up of systems of stars , ALL must be so made up ; that none can be masses of attenuated gaseous matter , because some are not . Science halted for a time . The accepted doctrine became this : that the only reason why all the nebula are not resolved into distinct stars is that our telescopes are not sufficiently powerful . But in time came the discovery of the spectroscope and spectrum analysis , and thence Fraunhofer 's discovery that the spectrum of an ignited gaseous body is non-continuous , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spectrum of an ignited solid is continuous , with no interrupting lines . And now the spectroscope was turned upon the nebula , and many of them were found to be gaseous . Here , then , was ground for the inference that in these nebulous masses at different stages of condensation  --  some apparently mere pitches of mist , some with luminous centres  --  we have the process of development actually going on , and observations like those of Lord Rosse and Arrest gave yet further confirmation to this view . Then came the great contribution of the nineteenth century to physics , aiding to explain important parts of the vast process by the mechanical theory of heat . Again the nebular hypothesis came forth stronger than ever , and about 1850 the beautiful experiment of Plateau on the rotation of a fluid globe came in apparently to illustrate if not to confirm it . Even so determined a defender of orthodoxy as Mr. Gladstone at last acknowledged some form of a nebular hypothesis as probably true . Here , too , was exhibited that form of surrendering theological views @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which we have seen in so many other fields ; and , as typical , an example may be given , which , however restricted in its scope , throws light on the process by which such surrenders are obtained . A few years since one of the most noted professors of chemistry in the city of New York , under the auspices of one of its most fashionable churches , gave a lecture which , as was claimed in the public prints and in placards posted in the streets , was to show that science supports the theory of creation given in the sacred books ascribed to Moses . A large audience assembled , and a brilliant series of elementary experiments with oxygen , hydrogen , and carbonic acid was concluded by the Plateau demonstration . It was beautifully made . As the coloured globule of oil , representing the earth , was revolved in a transparent medium of equal density , as it became flattened at the poles , as rings then broke forth from it and revolved about it , and , finally , as some of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continued to circle about the central mass , the audience , as well they might , rose and burst into rapturous applause . Thereupon a well-to-do citizen arose and moved the thanks of the audience to the eminent professor for " this perfect demonstration of the exact and literal conformity of the statements given in Holy Scripture with the latest results of science . " The motion was carried unanimously and with applause , and the audience dispersed , feeling that a great service had been rendered to orthodoxy . Sancta simplicitas ! What this incident exhibited on a small scale has been seen elsewhere with more distinguished actors and on a broader stage . Scores of theologians , chief among whom of late , in zeal if not in knowledge , has been Mr. Gladstone , have endeavoured to " reconcile " the two accounts in Genesis with each other and with the truths regarding the origin of the universe gained by astronomy , geology , geography , physics , and chemistry . The result has been recently stated by an eminent theologian , the Hulsean Professor of Divinity at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attempt at reconciling genesis with the exacting requirements of modern sciences has ever been known to succeed without entailing a degree of special pleading or forced interpretation to which , in such a question , we should be wise to have no recourse . " 9 9 For an interesting reference to the outcry against Newton , see McCosh , The Religious Aspect of Evolution , New York , 1890 , pp. 103 , 104 ; for germs of an evolutionary view among the Babylonians , see George Smith , Chaldean Account of Gensis , New York , 1876 , pp. 74 , 75 ; for a germ of the same thought in Lucretius , see his De Natura Rerum , lib. v , pp.187-194 , 447-454 ; for Bruno 's conjecture ( in 1591 ) , see Jevons , Principles of Science , London , 1874 , vol. ii , p. 36 ; for Kant 's statement , see his Naturgeschichte des Himmels ; for his part in the nebular hypothesis , see Lange , Geschichte des Materialismus , vol. i , p.266 ; for the value of Plateau 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vol. ii , p. 36 ; also Elisee Reclus , The Earth , translated by Woodward , vol. i , pp. 14-18 , for an estimate still more careful ; for a general account of discoveries of the nature of nebulae by spectroscope , see Draper , Conflict between Religion and Science ; for a careful discussion regarding the spectra of solid , liquid , and gaseous bodies , see Schellen , Spectrum Analysis , pp. 100 et seq. ; for a very thorough discussion of the bearings of discoveries made by spectrum analysis upon the nebular hypothesis , ibid. , pp. 532-537 ; for a presentation of the difficulties yet unsolved , see an article by Plummer in the London Popular Science Review for January , 1875 ; for an excellent short summary of recent observations and thoughts on this subject , see T. Sterry Hunt , Address at the Priestley Centennial , pp. 7 , 8 ; for an interesting modification of this hypothesis , see Proctor 's writings ; for a still more recent view see Lockyer 's two articles on The Sun 's Place in Nature for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ another group of sciences , though sometimes bitterly opposed and sometimes " reconciled " by theologians , have finally set the whole question at rest . First , there have come the biblical critics  --  earnest Christian scholars , working for the sake of truth  --  and these have revealed beyond the shadow of a reasonable doubt the existence of at least two distinct accounts of creation in our book of Genesis , which can sometimes be forced to agree , but which are generally absolutely at variance with each other . These scholars have further shown the two accounts to be not the cunningly devised fables of priestcraft , but evidently fragments of earlier legends , myths , and theologies , accepted in good faith and brought together for the noblest of purposes by those who put in order the first of our sacred books . Next have come the archaeologists and philologists , the devoted students of ancient monuments and records ; of these are such as Rawlinson , George Smith , Sayce , Oppert , Jensen , Schrader , Delitzsch , and a phalanx of similarly devoted scholars @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ especially the inscriptions found in the great library of Assurbanipal at Nineveh , and have discovered therein an account of the origin of the world identical in its most important features with the later accounts in our own book of Genesis . These men have had the courage to point out these facts and to connect them with the truth that these Chaldean and Babylonian myths , legends , and theories were far earlier than those of the Hebrews , which so strikingly resemble them , and which we have in our sacred books ; and they have also shown us how natural it was that the Jewish accounts of the creation should have been obtained at that remote period when the earliest Hebrews were among the Chaldeans , and how the great Hebrew poetic accounts of creation were drawn either from the sacred traditions of these earlier peoples or from antecedent sources common to various ancient nations . In a summary which for profound thought and fearless integrity does honour not only to himself but to the great position which he holds , the Rev. Dr. Driver , Professor of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recently stated the case fully and fairly . Having pointed out the fact that the Hebrews were one people out of many who thought upon the origin of the universe , he says that they " framed theories to account for the beginnings of the earth and man " ; that " they either did this for themselves or borrowed those of their neighbours " ; that " of the theories current in Assyria and Phoenicia fragments have been preserved , and these exhibit points of resemblance with the biblical narrative sufficient to warrant the inference that both are derived from the same cycle of tradition . " After giving some extracts from the Chaldean creation tablets he says : " In the light of these facts it is difficult to resist the conclusion that the biblical narrative is drawn from the same source as these other records . The biblical historians , it is plain , derived their materials from the best human sources available .... The materials which with other nations were combined into the crudest physical theories or associated with a grotesque polytheism were vivified and transformed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to become the vehicle of profound religious truth . " Not less honourable to the sister university and to himself is the statement recently made by the Rev. Dr. Ryle , Hulsean Professor of Divinity at Cambridge . He says that to suppose that a Christian " must either renounce his confidence in the achievements of scientific research or abandon his faith in Scripture is a monstrous perversion of Christian freedom . " He declares : " The old position is no longer tenable ; a new position has to be taken up at once , prayerfully chosen , and hopefully held . " He then goes on to compare the Hebrew story of creation with the earlier stories developed among kindred peoples , and especially with the pre-existing Assyro-Babylonian cosmogony , and shows that they are from the same source . He points out that any attempt to explain particular features of the story into harmony with the modern scientific ideas necessitates " a non-natural " interpretation ; but he says that , if we adopt a natural interpretation , " we shall consider that the Hebrew description of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and that it shares the limitations of the imperfect knowledge of the age at which it was committed to writing . " Regarding the account in Genesis of man 's physical origin , he says that it " is expressed in the simple terms of prehistoric legend , of unscientific pictorial description . " In these statements and in a multitude of others made by eminent Christian investigators in other countries is indicated what the victory is which has now been fully won over the older theology . Thus , from the Assyrian researches as well as from other sources , it has come to be acknowledged by the most eminent scholars at the leading seats of Christian learning that the accounts of creation with which for nearly two thousand years all scientific discoveries have had to be " reconciled "  --  the accounts which blocked the way of Copernicus , and Galileo , and Newton , and Laplace  --  were simply transcribed or evolved from a mass of myths and legends largely derived by the Hebrews from their ancient relations with Chaldea , rewrought in a monotheistic sense , imperfectly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sacred books which we have inherited . On one hand , then , we have the various groups of men devoted to the physical sciences all converging toward the proofs that the universe , as we at present know it , is the result of an evolutionary process  --  that is , of the gradual working of physical laws upon an early condition of matter ; on the other hand , we have other great groups of men devoted to historical , philological , and archaeological science whose researches all converge toward the conclusion that our sacred accounts of creation were the result of an evolution from an early chaos of rude opinion . The great body of theologians who have so long resisted the conclusions of the men of science have claimed to be fighting especially for " the truth of Scripture , " and their final answer to the simple conclusions of science regarding the evolution of the material universe has been the cry , " The Bible is true . " And they are right  --  though in a sense nobler than they have dreamed . Science @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a far nobler truth than that literal historical exactness for which theologians have so long and so vainly contended . More and more as we consider the results of the long struggle in this field we are brought to the conclusion that the inestimable value of the great sacred books of the world is found in their revelation of the steady striving of our race after higher conceptions , beliefs , and aspirations , both in morals and religion . Unfolding and exhibiting this long-continued effort , each of the great sacred books of the world is precious , and all , in the highest sense , are true . Not one of them , indeed , conforms to the measure of what mankind has now reached in historical and scientific truth ; to make a claim to such conformity is folly , for it simply exposes those who make it and the books for which it is made to loss of their just influence . That to which the great sacred books of the world conform , and our own most of all , is the evolution of the highest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its childhood through the great turning-points in its history . Herein lies the truth of all bibles , and especially of our own . Of vast value they indeed often are as a record of historical outward fact ; recen researches in the East are constantly increasing this value ; but it is not for this that we prize them most : they are eminently precious , not as a record of outward fact , but as a mirror of the evolving heart , mind , and soul of man . They are true because they have been developed in accordance with the laws governing the evolution of truth in human history , and because in poem , chronicle , code , legend , myth , apologue , or parable they reflect this development of what is best in the onward march of humanity . To say that they are not true is as if one should say that a flower or a tree or a planet is not true ; to scoff at them is to scoff at the law of the universe . In welding together into noble form @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Psalms , or in the book of Job , or elsewhere , the great conceptions of men acting under earlier inspiration , whether in Egypt , or Chaldea , or India , or Persia , the compilers of our sacred books have given to humanity a possession ever becoming more and more precious ; and modern science , in substituting a new heaven and a new earth for the old  --  the reign of law for the reign of caprice , and the idea of evolution for that of creation  --  has added and is steadily adding a new revelation divinely inspired . In the light of these two evolutions , then  --  one of the visible universe , the other of a sacred creation-legend  --  science and theology , if the master minds in both are wise , may at last be reconciled . A great step in this reconciliation was recently seen at the main centre of theological thought among English-speaking people , when , in the collection of essays entitled Lux Mundi , emanating from the college established in these latter days as a fortress of orthodoxy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in our sacred books was acknowledged , and when the Archbishop of Canterbury asked , " May not the Holy Spirit at times have made use of myth and legend ? " 10 10 For the first citations above made , see The Cosmogony of Genesis , by the Rev. S. R. Driver , D.D. , Canon of Christ Church and Regius Professor of Hebrew at Oxford , in the Expositor for January , 1886 ; for the second series of citations , see the Early Narratives of Genesis , by Herbert Edward Ryle , Hulsean Professor of Divinity at Cambridge , London , 1892 . For evidence that even the stiffest of Scotch Presbyterians have come to discard the old literal biblical narrative of creation and to regard the declaration of the Westminster Confession thereon as a " disproved theory of creation , " see Principal John Tulloch , in Contemporary Review , March , 1877 , on Religious Thought in Scotland  --  especially page 550 . II . THEOLOGICAL TEACHINGS REGARDING THE ANIMALS AND MAN . In one of the windows of the cathedral at Ulm a mediaeval glass-stainer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ animals , and there has just left the divine hands an elephant fully accoutred , with armour , harness , and housings , ready-for war . Similar representations appear in illuminated manuscripts and even in early printed books , and , as the culmination of the whole , the Almighty is shown as fashioning the first man from a hillock of clay and extracting from his side , with evident effort , the first woman . This view of the general process of creation had come from far , appearing under varying forms in various ancient cosmogonies . In the Egyptian temples at Philae and Denderah may still be seen representations of the Nile gods modelling lumps of clay into men , and a similar work is ascribed in the Assyrian tablets to the gods of Babylonia . Passing into our own sacred books , these ideas became the starting point of a vast new development of theology. 11 11 For representations of Egyptian gods creating men out of lumps of clay , see Maspero and Sayce , The Dawn of History , p. 156 ; for the Chaldean legends of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ p. 543 ; see also George Smith , Chaldean Accounts of Genesis , Sayce 's edition , pp. 36 , 72 , and 93 ; also for similar legends in other ancient nations , Lenormant , Origines de l'Histoire , pp. 17 et seq. ; for mediaeval representations of the creation of man and woman , see Didron , Iconographie , pp. 35 , 178 , 224 , 537 . The fathers of the Church generally received each of the two conflicting creation legends in Genesis literally , and then , having done their best to reconcile them with each other and to mould them together , made them the final test of thought upon the universe and all things therein . At the beginning of the fourth century Lactantius struck the key-note of this mode of subordinating all other things in the study of creation to the literal text of Scripture , and he enforces his view of the creation of man by a bit of philology , saying the final being created " is called man because he is made from the ground  --  homo ex humo . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as to the literal acceptance of the sacred text was reasserted by St. Ambrose , who , in his work on the creation , declared that " Moses opened his mouth and poured forth what God had said to him . " But a greater than either of them fastened this idea into the Christian theologies . St. Augustine , preparing his Commentary on the Book of Genesis , laid down in one famous sentence the law which has lasted in the Church until our own time : " Nothing is to be accepted save on the authority of Scripture , since greater is that authority than all the powers of the human mind . " The vigour of the sentence in its original Latin carried it ringing down the centuries : " Major est Scripturae auctoritas quam omnis humani ingenii capacitas . " Through the mediaeval period , in spite of a revolt led by no other than St. Augustine himself , and followed by a series of influential churchmen , contending , as we shall hereafter see , for a modification of the accepted view of creation , this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dominican encyclopaedist , Vincent of Beauvais , in his Mirror of Nature , while mixing ideas brought from Aristotle with a theory drawn from the Bible , stood firmly by the first of the accounts given in Genesis , and assigned the special virtue of the number six as a reason why all things were created in six days ; and in the later Middle Ages that eminent authority , Cardinal d ' Ailly , accepted everything regarding creation in the sacred books literally . Only a faint dissent is seen in Gregory Reisch , another authority of this later period , who , while giving , in his book on the beginning of things , a full length woodcut showing the Almighty in the act of extracting Eve from Adam 's side , with all the rest of new-formed Nature in the background , leans in his writings , like St. Augustine , toward a belief in the pre-existence of matter . At the Reformation the vast authority of Luther was thrown in favour of the literal acceptance of Scripture as the main source of natural science . The allegorical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Why , " he asks , " should Moses use allegory when he is not speaking of allegorical creatures or of an allegorical world , but of real creatures and of a visible world , which can be seen , felt , and grasped ? Moses calls things by their right names , as we ought to do .... I hold that the animals took their being at once upon the word of God , as did also the fishes in the sea . " Not less explicit in his adherence to the literal account of creation given in Genesis was Calvin . He warns those who , by taking another view than his own , " basely insult the Creator , to expect a judge who will annihilate them . " He insists that all species of animals were created in six days , each made up of an evening and a morning , and that no new species has ever appeared since . He dwells on the production of birds from the water as resting upon certain warrant of Scripture , but adds , " If the question @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that water is more akin to air than the earth is . " As to difficulties in the scriptural account of creation , he tells us that God " wished by these to give proofs of his power which should fill us with astonishment . " The controlling minds in the Roman Church steadfastly held this view . In the seventeenth century Bossuet threw his vast authority in its favour , and in his Discourse on Universal History , which has remained the foundation not only of theological but of general historical teaching in France down to the present republic , we find him calling attention to what he regards as the culminating act of creation , and asserting that , literally , for the creation of man earth was used , and " the finger of God applied to corruptible matter . " The Protestant world held this idea no less persistently . In the seventeenth century Dr. John Lightfoot , Vice-Chancellor of the University of Cambridge , the great rabbinical scholar of his time , attempted to reconcile the two main legends in Genesis by saying that of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kind created , three couples for breeding and the odd one for Adam 's sacrifice on his fall , which God foresaw " ; and that of unclean beasts only one couple was created . So literal was this whole conception of the work of creation that in these days it can scarcely be imagined . The Almighty was represented in theological literature , in the pictured Bibles , and in works of art generally , as a sort of enlarged and venerable Nuremberg toymaker . At times the accounts in Genesis were illustrated with even more literal exactness ; thus , in connection with a well-known passage in the sacred text , the Creator was shown as a tailor , seated , needle in hand , diligently sewing together skins of beasts into coats for Adam and Eve . Such representations presented no difficulties to the docile minds of the Middle Ages and the Reformation period ; and in the same spirit , when the discovery of fossils began to provoke thought , these were declared to be " models of his works approved or rejected by the great Artificer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sports of Nature , " or " objects placed in the strata to bring to naught human curiosity " ; and this kind of explanation lingered on until in our own time an eminent naturalist , in his anxiety to save the literal account in Genesis , has urged that Jehovah tilted and twisted the strata , scattered the fossils through them , scratched the glacial furrows upon them , spread over them the marks of erosion by water , and set Niagara pouring  --  all in an instant  --  thus mystifying the world " for some inscrutable purpose , but for his own glory . " 12 12 For the citation from Lactantius , see Divin . Instit. , lib. ii , cap . xi , in Migne , tome vi , pp. 311 , 312 ; for St. Augustine 's great phrase , see the De Genes . ad litt. , ii , 5 ; for St. Ambrose , see lib. i , cap . ii ; for Vincent of Beauvais , see the Speculum Naturale , lib. i , cap . ii , and lib. ii , cap @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vincent de Beauvais , Paris , 1856 , especially chaps . vii , xii , and xvi ; for Cardinal d " ailly , see the Imago Mundi , and for Reisch , see the various editions of the Margarita Philosophica ; for Luther 's statements , see Luther 's Schriften , ed . Walch , Halle , 1740 , Commentary on Genesis , vol. i ; for Calvin 's view of the creation of the animals , including the immutability of Species , see the Comm. in Gen. , tome i of his Opera omnia , Amst. , 1671 , cap . i , v , xx , p. 5 , also cap . ii , v , ii , p. 8 , and elsewhere ; for Bossuet , see his Discours sur l'Histoire universelle ( in his Euvres , tome v , Paris , 1846 ) ; for Lightfoot , see his works , edited by Pitman , London , 1822 ; for Bede , see the Hexaemeron , lib. i , in Migne , tome xci , p.21 ; for Mr. Gosse'smodern defence of the literal view , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The next important development of theological reasoning had regard to the DIVISIONS of the animal kingdom . Naturally , one of the first divisions which struck the inquiring mind was that between useful and noxious creatures , and the question therefore occurred , How could a good God create tigers and serpents , thorns and thistles ? The answer was found in theological considerations upon SIN . To man 's first disobedience all woes were due . Great men for eighteen hundred years developed the theory that before Adam 's disobedience there was no death , and therefore neither ferocity nor venom . Some typical utterances in the evolution of this doctrine are worthy of a passing glance . St. Augustine expressly confirmed and emphasized the view that the vegetable as well as the animal kingdom was cursed on account of man 's sin . Two hundred years later this utterance had been echoed on from father to father of the Church until it was caught by Bede ; he declared that before man 's fall animals were harmless , but were made poisonous or hurtful by Adam 's sin , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were created for terrifying man ( because God foresaw that he would sin ) , in order that he might be made aware of the final punishment of hell . " In the twelfth century this view was incorporated by Peter Lombard into his great theological work , the Sentences , which became a text-book of theology through the middle ages . He affirmed that " no created things would have been hurtful to man had he not sinned ; they became hurtful for the sake of terrifying and punishing vice or of proving and perfecting virtue ; they were created harmless , and on account of sin became hurtful . " This theological theory regarding animals was brought out in the eighteenth century with great force by John Wesley . He declared that before Adam 's sin " none of these attempted to devour or in any wise hurt one another " ; " the spider was as harmless as the fly , and did not lie in wait for blood . " Not only Wesley , but the eminent Dr. Adam Clarke and Dr. Richard Watson , whose ideas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and even among leading thinkers in the Established Church , held firmly to this theory ; so that not until , in our own time , geology revealed the remains of vast multitudes of carnivorous creatures , many of them with half-digested remains of other animals in their stomachs , all extinct long ages before the appearance of man upon earth , was a victory won by science over theology in this field . A curious development of this doctrine was seen in the belief drawn by sundry old commentators from the condemnation of the serpent in Genesis  --  a belief , indeed , perfectly natural , since it was evidently that of the original writers of the account preserved in the first of our sacred books . This belief was that , until the tempting serpent was cursed by the Almighty , all serpents stood erect , walked , and talked . This belief was handed down the ages as part of " the sacred deposit of the faith " until Watson , the most prolific writer of the evangelical reform in the eighteenth century and the standard theologian of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reason at all to believe that the animal had a serpentine form in any mode or degree until its transformation ; that he was then degraded to a reptile to go upon his belly imports , on the contrary , an entire loss and alteration of the original form . " Here , again , was a ripe result of the theologic method diligently pursued by the strongest thinkers in the Church during nearly two thousand years ; but this " sacred deposit " also faded away when the geologists found abundant remains of fossil serpents dating from periods long before the appearance of man . Troublesome questions also arose among theologians regarding animals classed as " superfluous . " St. Augustine was especially exercised thereby . He says : " I confess I am ignorant why mice and frogs were created , or flies and worms .... All creatures are either useful , hurtful , or superfluous to us .... As for the hurtful creatures , we are either punished , or disciplined , or terrified by them , so that we may not cherish and love this life . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ says , " Although they are not necessary for our service , yet the whole design of the universe is thereby completed and finished . " Luther , who followed St. Augustine in so many other matters , declined to follow him fully in this . To him a fly was not merely superfluous , it was noxious  --  sent by the devil to vex him when reading . Another subject which gave rise to much searching of Scripture and long trains of theological reasoning was the difference between the creation of man and that of other living beings . Great stress was laid by theologians , from St. Basil and St. Augustine to St. Thomas Aquinas and Bossuet , and from Luther to Wesley , on the radical distinction indicated in Genesis , God having created man " in his own image . " What this statement meant was seen in the light of the later biblical statement that " Adam begat Seth in his own likeness , after his image . " In view of this and of well-known texts incorporated from older creation legends into the Hebrew sacred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man was directly moulded and fashioned separately by the Creator 's hand , the animals generally were evoked in numbers from the earth and sea by the Creator 's voice . A question now arose naturally as to the DISTINCTIONS OF SPECIES among animals . The vast majority of theologians agreed in representing all animals as created " in the beginning , " and named by Adam , preserved in the ark , and continued ever afterward under exactly the same species . This belief ripened into a dogma . Like so many other dogmas in the Church , Catholic and Protestant , its real origins are to be found rather in pagan philosophy than in the Christian Scriptures ; it came far more from Plato and Aristotle than from Moses and St. Paul . But this was not considered : more and more it became necessary to believe that each and every difference of species was impressed by the Creator " in the beginning , " and that no change had taken place or could have taken place since . Some difficulties arose here and there as zoology progressed and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ages , and indeed long after the Reformation , these difficulties were easily surmounted by making the ark of Noah larger and larger , and especially by holding that there had been a human error in regard to its measurement. 13 13 For St. Augustine , see De Genesis and De Trinitate , passim ; for Bede , see Hexaemeron , lib. i , in Migne , tome xci , pp. 21 , 36-38 , 42 ; and De Sex Dierum Criatione , in Migne , tome xciii , p. 215 ; for Peter Lombard on " noxious animals , " see his Sententiae , lib. ii , dist. xv , 3 , Migne , tome cxcii , p. 682 ; for Wesley , Clarke , and Watson , see quotations from them and notes thereto in my chapter on Geology ; for St. Augustine on " superfluous animals , " see the De Genesi , lib. i , cap . xvi , 26 ; on Luther 's view of flies , see the Table Talk and his famous utterance , " Odio muscas quia sunt imagines diaboli et hoereticorum " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the belief in the fixity of species into Christian theology , see Sachs , Geschichte der Botanik , Munchen , 1875 , p. 107 and note , also p. 113 . But naturally there was developed among both ecclesiastics and laymen a human desire to go beyond these special points in the history of animated beings  --  a desire to know what the creation really IS . Current legends , stories , and travellers ' observations , poor as they were , tended powerfully to stimulate curiosity in this field . Three centuries before the Christian era Aristotle had made the first really great attempt to satisfy this curiosity , and had begun a development of studies in natural history which remains one of the leading achievements in the story of our race . But the feeling which we have already seen so strong in the early Church  --  that all study of Nature was futile in view of the approaching end of the world  --  indicated so clearly in the New Testament and voiced so powerfully by Lactantius and St. Augustine  --  held back this current of thought for many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to assert itself . There was , indeed , an influence coming from the Hebrew Scriptures themselves which wrought powerfully to this end ; for , in spite of all that Lactantius or St. Augustine might say as to the futility of any study of Nature , the grand utterances in the Psalms regarding the beauties and wonders of creation , in all the glow of the truest poetry , ennobled the study even among those whom logic drew away from it . But , as a matter of course , in the early Church and throughout the Middle Ages all such studies were cast in a theologic mould . Without some purpose of biblical illustration or spiritual edification they were considered futile too much prying into the secrets of Nature was very generally held to be dangerous both to body and soul ; only for showing forth God 's glory and his purposes in the creation were such studies praiseworthy . The great work of Aristotle was under eclipse . The early Christian thinkers gave little attention to it , and that little was devoted to transforming it into something @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ place of it they developed the Physiologus and the Bestiaries , mingling scriptural statements , legends of the saints , and fanciful inventions with pious intent and childlike simplicity . In place of research came authority  --  the authority of the Scriptures as interpreted by the Physio Cogus and the Bestiaries  --  and these remained the principal source of thought on animated Nature for over a thousand years . Occasionally , indeed , fear was shown among the rulers in the Church , even at such poor prying into the creation as this , and in the fifth century a synod under Pope Gelasius administered a rebuke to the Physiologus ; but the interest in Nature was too strong : the great work on Creation by St. Basil had drawn from the Physiologus precious illustrations of Holy Writ , and the strongest of the early popes , Gregory the Great , virtually sanctioned it . Thus was developed a sacred science of creation and of the divine purpose in Nature , which went on developing from the fourth century to the nineteenth  --  from St. Basil to St. Isidore of Seville @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vincent to Archdeacon Paley and the Bridgewater Treatises . Like all else in the Middle Ages , this sacred science was developed purely by theological methods . Neglecting the wonders which the dissection of the commonest animals would have afforded them , these naturalists attempted to throw light into Nature by ingenious use of scriptural texts , by research among the lives of the saints , and by the plentiful application of metaphysics . Hence even such strong men as St. Isidore of Seville treasured up accounts of the unicorn and dragons mentioned in the Scriptures and of the phoenix and basilisk in profane writings . Hence such contributions to knowledge as that the basilisk kills serpents by his breath and men by his glance , that the lion when pursued effaces his tracks with the end of his tail , that the pelican nourishes her young with her own blood , that serpents lay aside their venom before drinking , that the salamander quenches fire , that the hyena can talk with shepherds , that certain birds are born of the fruit of a certain tree when it happens to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ equally valuable . As to the method of bringing science to bear on Scripture , the Physiologus gives an example , illustrating the passage in the book of Job which speaks of the old lion perishing for lack of prey . Out of the attempt to explain an unusual Hebrew word in the text there came a curious development of error , until we find fully evolved an account of the " ant-lion , " which , it gives us to understand , was the lion mentioned by Job , and it says : " As to the ant-lion , his father hath the shape of a lion , his mother that of an ant ; the father liveth upon flesh and the mother upon herbs ; these bring forth the ant-lion , a compound of both and in part like to either ; for his fore part is like that of a lion and his hind part like that of an ant . Being thus composed , he is neither able to eat flesh like his father nor herbs like his mother , and so he perisheth . " In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this theological method in the great work of the English Franciscan Bartholomew on The Properties of Things . The theological method as applied to science consists largely in accepting tradition and in spinning arguments to fit it . In this field Bartholomew was a master . Having begun with the intent mainly to explain the allusions in Scripture to natural objects , he soon rises logically into a survey of all Nature . Discussing the " cockatrice " of Scripture , he tells us : " He drieth and burneth leaves with his touch , and he is of so great venom and perilous that he slayeth and wasteth him that nigheth him without tarrying ; and yet the weasel overcometh him , for the biting of the weasel is death to the cockatrice . Nevertheless the biting of the cockatrice is death to the weasel if the weasel eat not rue before . And though the cockatrice be venomous without remedy while he is alive , yet he looseth all the malice when he is burnt to ashes . His ashes be accounted profitable in working of alchemy , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bartholomew also enlightens us on the animals of Egypt , and says , " If the crocodile findeth a man by the water 's brim he slayeth him , and then he weepeth over him and swalloweth him . " Naturally this good Franciscan naturalist devotes much thought to the " dragons " mentioned in Scripture . He says : " The dragon is most greatest of all serpents , and oft he is drawn out of his den and riseth up into the air , and the air is moved by him , and also the sea swelleth against his venom , and he hath a crest , and reareth his tongue , and hath teeth like a saw , and hath strength , and not only in teeth but in tail , and grieveth with biting and with stinging . Whom he findeth he slayeth . Oft four or five of them fasten their tails together and rear up their heads , and sail over the sea to get good meat . Between elephants and dragons is everlasting fighting ; for the dragon with his tail spanneth the elephant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dragon .... The cause why the dragon desireth his blood is the coldness thereof , by the which the dragon desireth to cool himself . Jerome saith that the dragon is a full thirsty beast , insomuch that he openeth his mouth against the wind to quench the burning of his thirst in that wise . Therefore , when he seeth ships in great wind he flieth against the sail to take the cold wind , and overthroweth the ship . " These ideas of Friar Bartholomew spread far and struck deep into the popular mind . His book was translated into the principal languages of Europe , and was one of those most generally read during the Ages of Faith . It maintained its position nearly three hundred years ; even after the invention of printing it held its own , and in the fifteenth century there were issued no less than ten editions of it in Latin , four in French , and various versions of it in Dutch , Spanish , and English . Preachers found it especially useful in illustrating the ways of God to man . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ascertained fact for theological reasoning in this province that its authority was broken . The same sort of science flourished in the Bestiaries , which were used everywhere , and especially in the pulpits , for the edification of the faithful . In all of these , as in that compiled early in the thirteenth century by an ecclesiastic , William of Normandy , we have this lesson , borrowed from the Physiologus : " The lioness giveth birth to cubs which remain three days without life . Then cometh the lion , breatheth upon them , and bringeth them to life .... Thus it is that Jesus Christ during three days was deprived of life , but God the Father raised him gloriously . " Pious use was constantly made of this science , especially by monkish preachers . The phoenix rising from his ashes proves the doctrine of the resurrection ; the structure and mischief of monkeys proves the existence of demons ; the fact that certain monkeys have no tails proves that Satan has been shorn of his glory ; the weasel , which " constantly changes its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the word of God , who findeth no rest . " The moral treatises of the time often took the form of works on natural history , in order the more fully to exploit these religious teachings of Nature . Thus from the book On Bees , the Dominican Thomas of Cantimpre , we learn that " wasps persecute bees and make war on them out of natural hatred " ; and these , he tells us , typify the demons who dwell in the air and with lightning and tempest assail and vex mankind  --  whereupon he fills a long chapter with anecdotes of such demonic warfare on mortals . In like manner his fellow-Dominican , the inquisitor Nider , in his book The Ant Hill , teaches us that the ants in Ethiopia , which are said to have horns and to grow so large as to look like dogs , are emblems of atrocious heretics , like Wyclif and the Hussites , who bark and bite against the truth ; while the ants of India , which dig up gold out of the sand with their feet and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , symbolize the fruitless toil with which the heretics dig out the gold of Holy Scripture and hoard it in their books to no purpose . This pious spirit not only pervaded science ; it bloomed out in art , and especially in the cathedrals . In the gargoyles overhanging the walls , in the grotesques clambering about the towers or perched upon pinnacles , in the dragons prowling under archways or lurking in bosses of foliage , in the apocalyptic beasts carved upon the stalls of the choir , stained into the windows , wrought into the tapestries , illuminated in the letters and borders of psalters and missals , these marvels of creation suggested everywhere morals from the Physiologus , the Bestiaries , and the Exempla. 14 14 For the Physiologus , Bestiaries , etc. , see Berger de Xivrey , Traditions Teratologiques ; also Hippeau 's edition of the Bestiare de Guillaume de Normandie , Caen , 1852 , and such medieaval books of Exempla as the Lumen Naturae ; also Hoefer , Histoire de la Zoologie ; also Rambaud , Histoire de la Civilisation Francaise , Paris @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; also Cardinal Pitra , preface to the Spicilegium Solismense , Paris , 1885 , passim ; also Carus , Geschichte der Zoologie ; and for an admirable summary , the article Physiologus in the Encyclopedia Britannica . In the illuminated manuscripts in the Library of Cornell University are some very striking examples of grotesques . For admirably illustrated articles on the Bestiaries , see Cahier and Martin , Melanges d'Archeologie , Paris , 1851 , 1852 , and 1856 , vol. ii of the first series , pp. 85-232 , and second series , volume on Curiosities Mysterieuses , pp. 106-164 ; also J. R. Allen , Early Christian Symbolism in Great Britain and Ireland ( London , 1887 ) , lecture vi ; for an exhaustive discussion of the subject , see Das Thierbuch des normannischen Dichters Guillaume le Clerc , herausgegeben von Reinisch , Leipsic , 1890 ; and for an Italian examlpe , Goldstaub and Wendriner , Ein Tosco-Venezianischer Bestiarius , Halle , 1892 , where is given , on pp. 369-371 , a very pious but very comical tradition regarding the beaver , hardly mentionable to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his book itself ) Medieval Lore , edited by Robert Steele , London , 1893 , pp. 118-138 . Here and there among men who were free from church control we have work of a better sort . In the twelfth and thirteenth centuries Abd Allatif made observations upon the natural history of Egypt which showed a truly scientific spirit , and the Emperor Frederick II attempted to promote a more fruitful study of Nature ; but one of these men was abhorred as a Mussulman and the other as an infidel . Far more in accordance with the spirit of the time was the ecclesiastic Giraldus Cambrensis , whose book on the topography of Ireland bestows much attention upon the animals of the island , and rarely fails to make each contribute an appropriate moral . For example , he says that in Ireland " eagles live for so many ages that they seem to contend with eternity itself ; so also the saints , having put off the old man and put on the new , obtain the blessed fruit of everlasting life . " Again , he tells @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wings are scorched by the sun ; so those who in the Holy Scriptures strive to unravel the deep and hidden secrets of the heavenly mysteries , beyond what is allowed , fall below , as if the wings of the presumptuous imaginations on which they are borne were scorched . " In one of the great men of the following century appeared a gleam of healthful criticism : Albert the Great , in his work on the animals , dissents from the widespread belief that certain birds spring from trees and are nourished by the sap , and also from the theory that some are generated in the sea from decaying wood . But it required many generations for such scepticism to produce much effect , and we find among the illustrations in an edition of Mandeville published just before the Reformation not only careful accounts but pictured representations both of birds and of beasts produced in the fruit of trees. 15 15 For Giraldus Cambrensis , see the edition in the Bohn Library , London , 1863 , p. 30 ; for the Abd Allatif and Frederick II , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ see the De Animalibus , lib. xxiii ; for the illustrations in Mandeville , see the Strasburg edition , 1484 ; for the history of the myth of the tree which produces birds , see Max Muller 's lectures on the Science of Language , second series , lect. xii . This general employment of natural science for pious purposes went on after the Reformation . Luther frequently made this use of it , and his example controlled his followers . In 1612 , Wolfgang Franz , Professor of Theology at Luther 's university , gave to the world his sacred history of animals , which went through many editions . It contained a very ingenious classification , describing " natural dragons , " which have three rows of teeth to each jaw , and he piously adds , " the principal dragon is the Devil . " Near the end of the same century , Father Kircher , the great Jesuit professor at Rome , holds back the sceptical current , insists upon the orthodox view , and represents among the animals entering the ark sirens and griffins . Yet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spirit in natural science . Early in the same seventeenth century Eugene Roger published his Travels in Palestine . As regards the utterances of Scripture he is soundly orthodox : he prefaces his work with a map showing , among other important points referred to in biblical history , the place where Samson slew a thousand Philistines with the jawbone of an ass , the cavern which Adam and Eve inhabited after their expulsion from paradise , the spot where Balaam 's ass spoke , the place where Jacob wrestled with the angel , the steep place down which the swine possessed of devils plunged into the sea , the position of the salt statue which was once Lot 's wife , the place at sea where Jonah was swallowed by the whale , and " the exact spot where St. Peter caught one hundred and fifty-three fishes . " As to natural history , he describes and discusses with great theological acuteness the basilisk . He tells us that the animal is about a foot and a half long , is shaped like a crocodile , and kills people with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dead , fortunately for him , since in the time of Pope Leo IV  --  as he tells us  --  one appeared in Rome and killed many people by merely looking at them ; but the Pope destroyed it with his prayers and the sign of the cross . He informs us that Providence has wisely and mercifully protected man by requiring the monster to cry aloud two or three times whenever it leaves its den , and that the divine wisdom in creation is also shown by the fact that the monster is obliged to look its victim in the eye , and at a certain fixed distance , before its glance can penetrate the victim 's brain and so pass to his heart . He also gives a reason for supposing that the same divine mercy has provided that the crowing of a cock will kill the basilisk . Yet even in this good and credulous missionary we see the influence of Bacon and the dawn of experimental science ; for , having been told many stories regarding the salamander , he secured one , placed it alive upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legends concerning its power to live in the fire are untrue . He also tried experiments with the chameleon , and found that the stories told of it were to be received with much allowance : while , then , he locks up his judgment whenever he discusses the letter of Scripture , he uses his mind in other things much after the modern method . In the second half of the same century Hottinger , in his Theological Examination of the History of Creation , breaks from the belief in the phoenix ; but his scepticism is carefully kept within the limits imposed by Scripture . He avows his doubts , first , " because God created the animals in couples , while the phoenix is represented as a single , unmated creature " ; secondly , " because Noah , when he entered the ark , brought the animals in by sevens , while there were never so many individuals of the phoenix species " ; thirdly , because " no man is known who dares assert that he has ever seen this bird " ; fourthly , because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ themselves . " In view of these attacks on the salamander and the phoenix , we are not surprised to find , before the end of the century , scepticism regarding the basilisk : the eminent Prof. Kirchmaier , at the University of Wittenberg , treats phoenix and basilisk alike as old wives ' fables . As to the phoenix , he denies its existence , not only because Noah took no such bird into the ark , but also because , as he pithily remarks , " birds come from eggs , not from ashes . " But the unicorn he can not resign , nor will he even concede that the unicorn is a rhinoceros ; he appeals to Job and to Marco Polo to prove that this animal , as usually conceived , really exists , and says , " Who would not fear to deny the existence of the unicorn , since Holy Scripture names him with distinct praises ? " As to the other great animals mentioned in Scripture , he is so rationalistic as to admit that behemoth was an elephant and leviathan a whale @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and we soon find Dannhauer going a step further and declaring his disbelief even in the unicorn , insisting that it was a rhinoceros  --  only that and nothing more . Still , the main current continued strongly theological . In 1712 Samuel Bochart published his great work upon the animals of Holy Scripture . As showing its spirit we may take the titles of the chapters on the horse : " Chapter VI . Of the Hebrew Name of the Horse . " " Chapter VII . Of the Colours of the Six Horses in Zechariah . " " Chapter VIII . Of the Horses in Job . " " Chapter IX . Of Solomon 's Horses , and of the Texts wherein the Writers praise the Excellence of Horses . " " Chapter X. Of the Consecrated Horses of the Sun . " Among the other titles of chapters are such as : Of Balaam 's Ass ; Of the Thousand Philistines slain by Samson with the Jawbone of an Ass ; Of the Golden Calves of Aaron and Jeroboam ; Of the Bleating , Milk , Wool , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Of Notable Things told regarding Lions in Scripture ; Of Noah 's Dove and of the Dove which appeared at Christ 's Baptism . Mixed up in the book , with the principal mass drawn from Scripture , were many facts and reasonings taken from investigations by naturalists ; but all were permeated by the theological spirit. 16 16 For Franz and Kircher , see Perrier , La Philosophie Zoologique avant Darwin , 1884 , p. 29 ; for Roger , see his La Terre Saincte , Paris , 1664 , pp. 89-92 , 130 , 218 , etc. ; for Hottinger , see his Historiae Creatonis Examen theologico-philologicum , Heidelberg , 1659 , lib. vi , quaest.lxxxiii ; for Kirchmaier , see his Disputationes Zoologicae ( published collectively after his death ) , Jena , 1736 ; for Dannhauer , see his Disputationes Theologicae , Leipsic , 1707 , p. 14 ; for Bochart , see his Hierozoikon , sive De Animalibus Sacre Scripturae , Leyden , 1712 . The inquiry into Nature having thus been pursued nearly two thousand years theologically , we find by the middle of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the method of inquiry into Nature scientifically  --  the method which seeks not plausibilities but facts . At that time Edward Wotton led the way in England and Conrad Gesner on the Continent , by observations widely extended , carefully noted , and thoughtfully classified . This better method of interrogating Nature soon led to the formation of societies for the same purpose . In 1560 was founded an Academy for the Study of Nature at Naples , but theologians , becoming alarmed , suppressed it , and for nearly one hundred years there was no new combined effort of that sort , until in 1645 began the meetings in London of what was afterward the Royal Society . Then came the Academy of Sciences in France , and the Accademia del Cimento in Italy ; others followed in all parts of the world , and a great new movement was begun . Theologians soon saw a danger in this movement . In Italy , Prince Leopold de ' Medici , a protector of the Florentine Academy , was bribed with a cardinal 's hat to neglect it , and from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spirit was there shown . In France , there were frequent ecclesiastical interferences , of which Buffon 's humiliation for stating a simple scientific truth was a noted example . In England , Protestantism was at first hardly more favourable toward the Royal Society , and the great Dr. South denounced it in his sermons as irreligious . Fortunately , one thing prevented an open breach between theology and science : while new investigators had mainly given up the medieval method so dear to the Church , they had very generally retained the conception of direct creation and of design throughout creation  --  a design having as its main purpose the profit , instruction , enjoyment , and amusement of man . On this the naturally opposing tendencies of theology and science were compromised . Science , while somewhat freed from its old limitations , became the handmaid of theology in illustrating the doctrine of creative design , and always with apparent deference to the Chaldean and other ancient myths and legends embodied in the Hebrew sacred books . About the middle of the seventeenth century came a great victory of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Francesco Redi published the results of his inquiries into the doctrine of spontaneous generation . For ages a widely accepted doctrine had been that water , filth , and carrion had received power from the Creator to generate worms , insects , and a multitude of the smaller animals ; and this doctrine had been especially welcomed by St. Augustine and many of the fathers , since it relieved the Almighty of making , Adam of naming , and Noah of living in the ark with these innumerable despised species . But to this fallacy Redi put an end . By researches which could not be gainsaid , he showed that every one of these animals came from an egg ; each , therefore , must be the lineal descendant of an animal created , named , and preserved from " the beginning . " Similar work went on in England , but under more distinctly theological limitations . In the same seventeenth century a very famous and popular English book was published by the naturalist John Ray , a fellow of the Royal Society , who produced a number of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the most widely read of all was entitled The Wisdom of God manifested in the Works of Creation . Between the years 1691 and 1827 it passed through nearly twenty editions . Ray argued the goodness and wisdom of God from the adaptation of the animals not only to man 's uses but to their own lives and surroundings . In the first years of the eighteenth century Dr. Nehemiah Grew , of the Royal Society , published his Cosmologia Sacra to refute anti-scriptural opinions by producing evidences of creative design . Discussing " the ends of Providence , " he says , " A crane , which is scurvy meat , lays but two eggs in the year , but a pheasant and partridge , both excellent meat , lay and hatch fifteen or twenty . " He points to the fact that " those of value which lay few at a time sit the oftener , as the woodcock and the dove . " He breaks decidedly from the doctrine that noxious things in Nature are caused by sin , and shows that they , too , are useful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to secure an excellent medicine for children and cattle " ; that , " if the bramble hurts man , it makes all the better hedge " ; and that , " if it chances to prick the owner , it tears the thief . " " Weasels , kites , and other hurtful animals induce us to watchfulness ; thistles and moles , to good husbandry ; lice oblige us to cleanliness in our bodies , spiders in our houses , and the moth in our clothes . " This very optimistic view , triumphing over the theological theory of noxious animals and plants as effects of sin , which prevailed with so much force from St. Augustine to Wesley , was developed into nobler form during the century by various thinkers , and especially by Archdeacon Paley , whose Natural Theology exercised a powerful influence down to recent times . The same tendency appeared in other countries , though various philosophers showed weak points in the argument , and Goethe made sport of it in a noted verse , praising the forethought of the Creator in foreordaining the cork @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ middle of the nineteenth century the main movement culminated in the Bridgewater Treatises . Pursuant to the will of the eighth Earl of Bridgewater , the President of the Royal Society selected eight persons , each to receive a thousand pounds sterling for writing and publishing a treatise on the " power , wisdom , and goodness of God , as manifested in the creation . " Of these , the leading essays in regard to animated Nature were those of Thomas Chalmers , on The Adaptation of External Nature to the Moral and Intellectual Condition of Man ; of Sir Charles Bell , on The Hand as evincing Design ; of Roget , on Animal and Vegetable Physiology with reference to Natural Theology ; and of Kirby , on The Habits and Instincts of Animals with reference to Natural Theology . Besides these there were treatises by Whewell , Buckland , Kidd , and Prout . The work was well done . It was a marked advance on all that had appeared before , in matter , method , and spirit . Looking back upon it now we can see @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the less fruitful in truth , and we may well remember Darwin 's remark on the stimulating effect of mistaken THEORIES , as compared with the sterilizing effect of mistaken OBSERVATIONS : mistaken observations lead men astray , mistaken theories suggest true theories . An effort made in so noble a spirit certainly does not deserve the ridicule that , in our own day , has sometimes been lavished upon it . Curiously , indeed , one of the most contemptuous of these criticisms has been recently made by one of the most strenuous defenders of orthodoxy . No less eminent a standard-bearer of the faith than the Rev. Prof. Zoeckler says of this movement to demonstrate creative purpose and design , and of the men who took part in it , " The earth appeared in their representation of it like a great clothing shop and soup kitchen , and God as a glorified rationalistic professor . " Such a statement as this is far from just to the conceptions of such men as Butler , Paley , and Chalmers , no matter how fully the thinking world has now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ study on the old idea of the generation of insects from carrion , see Osten-Sacken , on the Oxen-born Bees of the Ancients , Heidelberg , 1894 ; for Ray , see the work cited , London , 1827 , p. 153 ; for Grew , see Cosmologia Sacra , or a Discourse on the Universe , as it is the Creature and Kingdom of God ; chiefly written to demonstrate the Truth and Excellency of the Bible , by Dr. Nehemiah Grew , Fellow of the College of Physicians and of the Royal Society of London , 1701 ; for Paley and the Bridgewater Treatises , see the usual editions ; also Lange , History of Rationalism . Goethe 's couplet ran as follows : " Welche Verehrung verdient der Weltenerschopfer , der Gnadig , Als er den Korkbaum erschuf , gleich auch die Stopfel erfand . " For the quotation from Zoeckler , see his work already cited , vol. ii , pp. 74 , 440 . But , noble as the work of these men was , the foundation of fact on which they reared it became evidently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the seventeenth century acute theologians had begun to discern difficulties more serious than any that had before confronted them . More and more it was seen that the number of different species was far greater than the world had hitherto imagined . Greater and greater had become the old difficulty in conceiving that , of these innumerable species , each had been specially created by the Almighty hand ; that each had been brought before Adam by the Almighty to be named ; and that each , in couples or in sevens , had been gathered by Noah into the ark . But the difficulties thus suggested were as nothing compared to those raised by the DISTRIBUTION of animals . Even in the first days of the Church this had aroused serious thought , and above all in the great mind of St. Augustine . In his City of God he had stated the difficulty as follows : " But there is a question about all these kinds of beasts , which are neither tamed by man , nor spring from the earth like frogs , such as wolves and others @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ find their way to the islands after that flood which destroyed every living thing not preserved in the ark .... Some , indeed , might be thought to reach islands by swimming , in case these were very near ; but some islands are so remote from continental lands that it does not seem possible that any creature could reach them by swimming . It is not an incredible thing , either , that some animals may have been captured by men and taken with them to those lands which they intended to inhabit , in order that they might have the pleasure of hunting ; and it can not be denied that the transfer may have been accomplished through the agency of angels , commanded or allowed to perform this labour by God . " But this difficulty had now assumed a magnitude of which St. Augustine never dreamed . Most powerful of all agencies to increase it were the voyages of Columbus , Vasco da Gama , Magellan , Amerigo Vespucci , and other navigators of the period of discovery . Still more serious did it become as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ navigator brought home tidings of new species of animals and of races of men living in parts of the world where the theologians , relying on the statement of St. Paul that the gospel had gone into all lands , had for ages declared there could be none ; until finally it overtaxed even the theological imagination to conceive of angels , in obedience to the divine command , distributing the various animals over the earth , dropping the megatherium in South America , the archeopteryx in Europe , the ornithorhynchus in Australia , and the opossum in North America . The first striking evidence of this new difficulty was shown by the eminent Jesuit missionary , Joseph Acosta . In his Natural and Moral History of the Indies , published in 1590 , he proved himself honest and lucid . Though entangled in most of the older scriptural views , he broke away from many ; but the distribution of animals gave him great trouble . Having shown the futility of St. Augustine 's other explanations , he quaintly asks : " Who can imagine that in so long a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Peru , especially that kinde they call Acias , ' which is the filthiest I have seene ? Who woulde likewise say that they have carried Tygers and Lyons ? Truly it were a thing worthy the laughing at to thinke so . It was sufficient , yea , very much , for men driven against their willes by tempest , in so long and unknowne a voyage , to escape with their owne lives , without busying themselves to carrie Woolves and Foxes , and to nourish them at sea . " It was under the impression made by this new array of facts that in 1667 Abraham Milius published at Geneva his book on The Origin of Animals and the Migration of Peoples . This book shows , like that of Acosta , the shock and strain to which the discovery of America subjected the received theological scheme of things . It was issued with the special approbation of the Bishop of Salzburg , and it indicates the possibility that a solution of the whole trouble may be found in the text , " Let the earth bring forth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on to show that the ancient philosophers agree with Moses , and that " the earth and the waters , and especially the heat of the sun and of the genial sky , together with that slimy and putrid quality which seems to be inherent in the soil , may furnish the origin for fishes , terrestrial animals , and birds . " On the other hand , he is very severe against those who imagine that man can have had the same origin with animals . But the subject with which Milius especially grapples is the DISTRIBUTION of animals . He is greatly exercised by the many species found in America and in remote islands of the ocean  --  species entirely unknown in the other continents  --  and of course he is especially troubled by the fact that these species existing in those exceedingly remote parts of the earth do not exist in the neighbourhood of Mount Ararat . He confesses that to explain the distribution of animals is the most difficult part of the problem . If it be urged that birds could reach America by flying and fishes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beasts which neither fly nor swim ? " Yet even as to the birds he asks , " Is there not an infinite variety of winged creatures who fly so slowly and heavily , and have such a horror of the water , that they would not even dare trust themselves to fly over a wide river ? " As to fishes , he says , " They are very averse to wandering from their native waters , " and he shows that there are now reported many species of American and East Indian fishes entirely unknown on the other continents , whose presence , therefore , can not be explained by any theory of natural dispersion . Of those who suggest that land animals may have been dispersed over the earth by the direct agency of man for his use or pleasure he asks : " Who would like to get different sorts of lions , bears , tigers , and other ferocious and noxious creatures on board ship ? who would trust himself with them ? and who would wish to plant colonies of such creatures in new , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ animals take their origin in the lands wherein they are found ; an opinion which he supports by quoting from the two narrations in Genesis passages which imply generative force in earth and water . But in the eighteenth century matters had become even worse for the theological view . To meet the difficulty the eminent Benedictine , Dom Calmet , in his Commentary , expressed the belief that all the species of a genus had originally formed one species , and he dwelt on this view as one which enabled him to explain the possibility of gathering all animals into the ark . This idea , dangerous as it was to the fabric of orthodoxy , and involving a profound separation from the general doctrine of the Church , seems to have been abroad among thinking men , for we find in the latter half of the same century even Linnaeus inclining to consider it . It was time , indeed , that some new theological theory be evolved ; the great Linnaeus himself , in spite of his famous declaration favouring the fixity of species , had dealt a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , published in the middle of the eighteenth century , he had enumerated four thousand species of animals , and the difficulties involved in the naming of each of them by Adam and in bringing them together in the ark appeared to all thinking men more and more insurmountable . What was more embarrassing , the number of distinct species went on increasing rapidly , indeed enormously , until , as an eminent zoological authority of our own time has declared , " for every one of the species enumerated by Linnaeus , more than fifty kinds are known to the naturalist of to-day , and the number of species still unknown doubtless far exceeds the list of those recorded . " Already there were premonitions of the strain made upon Scripture by requiring a hundred and sixty distinct miraculous interventions of the Creator to produce the hundred and sixty species of land shells found in the little island of Madeira alone , and fourteen hundred distinct interventions to produce the actual number of distinct species of a single well-known shell . Ever more and more difficult , too , became @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new explorations were made in various parts of the world , this danger to the theological view went on increasing . The sloths in South America suggested painful questions : How could animals so sluggish have got away from the neighbourhood of Mount Ararat so completely and have travelled so far ? The explorations in Australia and neighbouring islands made matters still worse , for there was found in those regions a whole realm of animals differing widely from those of other parts of the earth . The problem before the strict theologians became , for example , how to explain the fact that the kangaroo can have been in the ark and be now only found in Australia : his saltatory powers are indeed great , but how could he by any series of leaps have sprung across the intervening mountains , plains , and oceans to that remote continent ? and , if the theory were adopted that at some period a causeway extended across the vast chasm separating Australia from the nearest mainland , why did not lions , tigers , camels , and camelopards force or find @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , had by the end of the eighteenth century gone to pieces . The wiser theologians waited ; the unwise indulged in exhortations to " root out the wicked heart of unbelief , " in denunciation of " science falsely so called , " and in frantic declarations that " the Bible is true "  --  by which they meant that the limited understanding of it which they had happened to inherit is true . By the middle of the nineteenth century the whole theological theory of creation  --  though still preached everywhere as a matter of form  --  was clearly seen by all thinking men to be hopelessly lost : such strong men as Cardinal Wiseman in the Roman Church , Dean Buckland in the Anglican , and Hugh Miller in the Scottish Church , made heroic efforts to save something from it , but all to no purpose . That sturdy Teutonic and Anglo-Saxon honesty , which is the best legacy of the Middle Ages to Christendom , asserted itself in the old strongholds of theological thought , the universities . Neither the powerful logic of Bishop Butler nor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the line of astronomical thinkers from Copernicus to Newton had destroyed the old astronomy , in which the earth was the centre , and the Almighty sitting above the firmament the agent in moving the heavenly bodies about it with his own hands , so now a race of biological thinkers had destroyed the old idea of a Creator minutely contriving and fashioning all animals to suit the needs and purposes of man . They had developed a system of a very different sort , and this we shall next consider. 18 18 For Acosta , see his Historia Natural y moral de las Indias , Seville , 1590  --  the quaint English translation is of London , 1604 ; for Abraham Milius , see his De Origine Animalium et Migratione Popularum , Geneva , 1667 ; also Kosmos , 1877 , H. I , S. 36 ; for Linnaeus 's declaration regarding species , see the Philosophia Botanica , 99 , 157 ; for Calmet and Linnaeus , see Zoeckler , vol. ii , p. 237 . As to the enormously increasing numbers of species in zoology and botany , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 176 , 177 ; also for pithy statement , Laing 's Problems of the Future , chap . vi . III . THEOLOGICAL AND SCIENTIFIC THEORIES , OF AN EVOLUTION IN ANIMATED NATURE . We have seen , thus far , how there came into the thinking of mankind upon the visible universe and its inhabitants the idea of a creation virtually instantaneous and complete , and of a Creator in human form with human attributes , who spoke matter into existence literally by the exercise of his throat and lips , or shaped and placed it with his hands and fingers . We have seen that this view came from far ; that it existed in the Chaldaeo-Babylonian and Egyptian civilizations , and probably in others of the earliest date known to us ; that its main features passed thence into the sacred books of the Hebrews and then into the early Christian Church , by whose theologians it was developed through the Middle Ages and maintained during the modern period . But , while this idea was thus developed by a succession of noble and thoughtful men through thousands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ancient , was developed , sometimes in antagonism to it , sometimes mingled with it  --  the conception of all living beings as wholly or in part the result of a growth process  --  of an evolution . This idea , in various forms , became a powerful factor in nearly all the greater ancient theologies and philosophies . For very widespread among the early peoples who attained to much thinking power was a conception that , in obedience to the divine fiat , a watery chaos produced the earth , and that the sea and land gave birth to their inhabitants . This is clearly seen in those records of Chaldaeo-Babylonian thought deciphered in these latter years , to which reference has already been made . In these we have a watery chaos which , under divine action , brings forth the earth and its inhabitants ; first the sea animals and then the land animals  --  the latter being separated into three kinds , substantially as recorded afterward in the Hebrew accounts . At the various stages in the work the Chaldean Creator pronounces it " beautiful , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pronounces it " good . " In both accounts there is placed over the whole creation a solid , concave firmament ; in both , light is created first , and the heavenly bodies are afterward placed " for signs and for seasons " ; in both , the number seven is especially sacred , giving rise to a sacred division of time and to much else . It may be added that , with many other features in the Hebrew legends evidently drawn from the Chaldean , the account of the creation in each is followed by a legend regarding " the fall of man " and a deluge , many details of which clearly passed in slightly modified form from the Chaldean into the Hebrew accounts . It would have been a miracle indeed if these primitive conceptions , wrought out with so much poetic vigour in that earlier civilization on the Tigris and Euphrates , had failed to influence the Hebrews , who during the most plastic periods of their development were under the tutelage of their Chaldean neighbours . Since the researches of Layard , George Smith @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their compeers , there is no longer a reasonable doubt that this ancient view of the world , elaborated if not originated in that earlier civilization , came thence as a legacy to the Hebrews , who wrought it in a somewhat disjointed but mainly monotheistic form into the poetic whole which forms one of the most precious treasures of ancient thought preserved in the book of Genesis . Thus it was that , while the idea of a simple material creation literally by the hands and fingers or voice of the Creator became , as we have seen , the starting-point of a powerful stream of theological thought , and while this stream was swollen from age to age by contributions from the fathers , doctors , and learned divines of the Church , Catholic and Protestant , there was poured into it this lesser current , always discernible and at times clearly separated from it  --  a current of belief in a process of evolution . The Rev. Prof. Sayce , of Oxford , than whom no English-speaking scholar carries more weight in a matter of this kind , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the undoubted source of the similar theory propounded by the Ionic philosopher Anaximander  --  the Greek thinkers deriving this view from the Babylonians through the Phoenicians ; he also allows that from the same source its main features were adopted into both the accounts given in the first of our sacred books , and in this general view the most eminent Christian Assyriologists concur . It is true that these sacred accounts of ours contradict each other . In that part of the first or Elohistic account given in the first chapter of Genesis the WATERS bring forth fishes , marine animals , and birds ( Genesis , i , 20 ) ; but in that part of the second or Jehovistic account given in the second chapter of Genesis both the land animals and birds are declared to have been created not out of the water , but " OUT OF THE GROUND " ( Genesis , ii , 19 ) . The dialectic skill of the fathers was easily equal to explaining away this contradiction ; but the old current of thought , strengthened by both these legends , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a succession of the greatest men of the Church , influenced theological opinion deeply , if not widely , for ages , in favour of an evolution theory . But there was still another ancient source of evolution ideas . Thoughtful men of the early civilizations which were developed along the great rivers in the warmer regions of the earth noted how the sun-god as he rose in his fullest might caused the water and the rich soil to teem with the lesser forms of life . In Egypt , especially , men saw how under this divine power the Nile slime brought forth " creeping things innumerable . " Hence mainly this ancient belief that the animals and man were produced by lifeless matter at the divine command , " in the beginning , " was supplemented by the idea that some of the lesser animals , especially the insects , were produced by a later evolution , being evoked after the original creation from various sources , but chiefly from matter in a state of decay . This crude , early view aided doubtless in giving germs of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Empedocles , Anaxagoras , and , greatest of all , Aristotle , as we have seen , developed them , making their way at times by guesses toward truths since established by observation . Aristotle especially , both by speculation and observation , arrived at some results which , had Greek freedom of thought continued , might have brought the world long since to its present plane of biological knowledge ; for he reached something like the modern idea of a succession of higher organizations from lower , and made the fruitful suggestion of " a perfecting principle " in Nature . With the coming in of Christian theology this tendency toward a yet truer theory of evolution was mainly stopped , but the old crude view remained , and as a typical example of it we may note the opinion of St. Basil the Great in the fourth century . Discussing the work of creation , he declares that , at the command of God , " the waters were gifted with productive power " ; " from slime and muddy places frogs , flies , and gnats came @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same voice which gave this energy and quality of productiveness to earth and water shall be similarly efficacious until the end of the world . St. Gregory of Nyssa held a similar view . This idea of these great fathers of the Eastern Church took even stronger hold on the great father of the Western Church . For St. Augustine , so fettered usually by the letter of the sacred text , broke from his own famous doctrine as to the acceptance of Scripture and spurned the generally received belief of a creative process like that by which a toymaker brings into existence a box of playthings . In his great treatise on Genesis he says : " To suppose that God formed man from the dust with bodily hands is very childish .... God neither formed man with bodily hands nor did he breathe upon him with throat and lips . " St. Augustine then suggests the adoption of the old emanation or evolution theory , shows that " certain very small animals may not have been created on the fifth and sixth days , but may have originated later @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this be so , God is still their creator , dwells upon such a potential creation as involved in the actual creation , and speaks of animals " whose numbers the after-time unfolded . " In his great treatise on the Trinity  --  the work to which he devoted the best thirty years of his life  --  we find the full growth of this opinion . He develops at length the view that in the creation of living beings there was something like a growth  --  that God is the ultimate author , but works through secondary causes ; and finally argues that certain substances are endowed by God with the power of producing certain classes of plants and animals. 19 19 For the Chaldean view of creation , see George Smith , Chaldean Account of Genesis , New York , 1876 , pp. 14,15 , and 64-86 ; also Lukas , as above ; also Sayce , Religion of the Ancient Babylonians , Hibbert Lectures for 1887 , pp. 371 and elsewhere ; as to the fall of man , Tower of Babel , sacredness of the number seven , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ translation of Smith , pp. 305 et seq. ; as to the almost exact adoption of the Chaldean legends into the Hebrew sacred account , see all these , as also Schrader , Die Keilinschriften und das Alte Testament , Giessen , 1883 , early chapters ; also article Babylonia in the Encyclopedia Britannica ; as to simialr approval of creation by the Creator in both accounts , see George Smith , p. 73 ; as to the migration of the Babylonian legends to the Hebrews , see Schrader , Whitehouse 's translation , pp. 44,45 ; as to the Chaldaean belief ina solid firmament , while Schrader in 1883 thought it not proved , Jensen in 1890 has found it clearly expresses  --  see his Kosmologie der Babylonier , pp.9 et seq. , also pp. 304-306 , and elsewhere . Dr. Lukas in 1893 also fully accepts this view of a Chaldean record of a " firmament "  --  see Kosmologie , pp. 43 , etc. ; see also Maspero and Sayce , the Dawn of Civilization , and for crude early ideas of evolution in Egypt , see ibid. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ among the Chaldeans and rest on the seventh day , and the proof that even the name " Sabbath " is of Chaldean origin , see Delitzsch , Beiga-ben zu Smith 's Chald . Genesis , pp. 300 and 306 ; also Schrader ; for St. Basil , see Hexaemeron and Homilies vii-ix ; but for the steadfastness of Basil 's view in regard to the immutability of species , see a Catholic writer on evolution and Faith in the Dublin Review for July , 1871 , p. 13 ; for citations of St. Augustine on Genesis , see the De Genesi contra Manichoeos , lib. ii , cap . 14 , in Migne , xxxiv , 188 ,  --  lib. v , cap . 5 and cap . 23 ,  --  and lib vii , cap I ; for the citations from his work on the Trinity , see his De Trinitate , lib. iii , cap . 8 and 9 , in Migne , xlii , 877 , 878 ; for the general subject very fully and adequately presented , see Osborn , From the Greeks to Darwin , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This idea of a development by secondary causes apart from the original creation was helped in its growth by a theological exigency . More and more , as the organic world was observed , the vast multitude of petty animals , winged creatures , and " creeping things " was felt to be a strain upon the sacred narrative . More and more it became difficult to reconcile the dignity of the Almighty with his work in bringing each of these creatures before Adam to be named ; or to reconcile the human limitations of Adam with his work in naming " every living creature " ; or to reconcile the dimensions of Noah 's ark with the space required for preserving all of them , and the food of all sorts necessary for their sustenance , whether they were admitted by twos , as stated in one scriptural account , or by sevens , as stated in the other . The inadequate size of the ark gave especial trouble . Origen had dealt with it by suggesting that the cubit was six times greater than had been supposed . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vessel by supposing that he worked upon it during a hundred years ; and , as to the provision of food taken into it , he declared that there was no need of a supply for more than one day , since God could throw the animals into a deep sleep or otherwise miraculously make one day 's supply sufficient ; he also lessened the strain on faith still more by diminishing the number of animals taken into the ark  --  supporting his view upon Augustine 's theory of the later development of insects out of carrion . Doubtless this theological necessity was among the main reasons which led St. Isidore of Seville , in the seventh century , to incorporate this theory , supported by St. Basil and St. Augustine , into his great encyclopedic work which gave materials for thought on God and Nature to so many generations . He familiarized the theological world still further with the doctrine of secondary creation , giving such examples of it as that " bees are generated from decomposed veal , beetles from horseflesh , grasshoppers from mules , scorpions from crabs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ force to the idea of such transformations , he dwells on the biblical account of Nebuchadnezzar , which appears to have taken strong hold upon medieval thought in science , and he declares that other human beings had been changed into animals , especially into swine , wolves , and owls . This doctrine of after-creations went on gathering strength until , in the twelfth century , Peter Lombard , in his theological summary , The Sentences , so powerful in moulding the thought of the Church , emphasized the distinction between animals which spring from carrion and those which are created from earth and water ; the former he holds to have been created " potentially " the latter " actually . " In the century following , this idea was taken up by St. Thomas Aquinas and virtually received from him its final form . In the Summa , which remains the greatest work of medieval thought , he accepts the idea that certain animals spring from the decaying bodies of plants and animals , and declares that they are produced by the creative word of God either actually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Nothing was made by God , after the six days of creation , absolutely new , but it was in some sense included in the work of the six days " ; and that " even new species , if any appear , have existed before in certain native properties , just as animals are produced from putrefaction . " The distinction thus developed between creation " causally " or " potentially , " and " materially " or " formally , " was made much of by commentators afterward . Cornelius a Lapide spread it by saying that certain animals were created not " absolutely , " but only " derivatively , " and this thought was still further developed three centuries later by Augustinus Eugubinus , who tells us that , after the first creative energy had called forth land and water , light was made by the Almighty , the instrument of all future creation , and that the light called everything into existence . All this " science falsely so called , " so sedulously developed by the master minds of the Church , and yet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apostle , in a glow of prophetic vision , had foreseen it in his famous condemnation , seems at this distance very harmless indeed ; yet , to many guardians of the " sacred deposit of doctrine " in the Church , even so slight a departure from the main current of thought seemed dangerous . It appeared to them like pressing the doctrine of secondary causes to a perilous extent ; and about the beginning of the seventeenth century we have the eminent Spanish Jesuit and theologian Suarez denouncing it , and declaring St. Augustine a heretic for his share in it . But there was little danger to the older idea just then ; the main theological tendency was so strong that the world kept on as of old . Biblical theology continued to spin its own webs out of its own bowels , and all the lesser theological flies continued to be entangled in them ; yet here and there stronger thinkers broke loose from this entanglement and helped somewhat to disentangle others. 20 20 For Bede 's view of the ark and the origin of insects , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , see the Etymologiae , xi , 4 , and xiii , 22 ; for Peter Lombard , see Sent. , lib. ii , dist. xv , 4 ( in Migne , cxcii , 682 ) ; for St. Thomas Aquinas as to the laws of Nature , see Summae Theologica , i , Quaest. lxvii , art . iv ; for his discussion on Avicenna 's theory of the origin of animals , see ibid. , i Quaest. lxxi , vol. i , pp. 1184 and 1185 , of Migne 's edit. ; for his idea as to the word of God being the active producing principle , see ibid. , i , Quaest. lxxi , art . i ; for his remarks on species , see ibid , i , Quaest. lxxii , art . i ; for his ideas on the necessity of the procreation of man , see ibid , i , Quaest. lxxii , art . i ; for the origin of animals from putrefaction , see ibid , i , Quaest. lxxix , art . i , 3 ; for Cornelius a Lapide on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , cap . i , cited by Mivart , Genesis of Species , p. 282 ; for a reference to Suarez 's denunciation of the view of St. Augustine , see Huxley 's Essays . At the close of the Middle Ages , in spite of the devotion of the Reformed Church to the letter of Scripture , the revival of learning and the great voyages gave an atmosphere in which better thinking on the problems of Nature began to gain strength . On all sides , in every field , men were making discoveries which caused the general theological view to appear more and more inadequate . First of those who should be mentioned with reverence as beginning to develop again that current of Greek thought which the system drawn from our sacred books by the fathers and doctors of the Church had interrupted for more than a thousand years , was Giordano Bruno . His utterances were indeed vague and enigmatical , but this fault may well be forgiven him , for he saw but too clearly what must be his reward for any more open statements . His @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when , toward the end of the nineteenth century , thoughtful men from all parts of the world united in erecting his statue on the spot where he had been burned by the Roman Inquisition nearly three hundred years before . After Bruno 's death , during the first half of the seventeenth century , Descartes seemed about to take the leadership of human thought : his theories , however superseded now , gave a great impulse to investigation then . His genius in promoting an evolution doctrine as regards the mechanical formation of the solar system was great , and his mode of thought strengthened the current of evolutionary doctrine generally ; but his constant dread of persecution , both from Catholics and Protestants , led him steadily to veil his thoughts and even to suppress them . The execution of Bruno had occurred in his childhood , and in the midst of his career he had watched the Galileo struggle in all its stages . He had seen his own works condemned by university after university under the direction of theologians , and placed upon the Roman Index . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ existence of God , and humbled himself before the Jesuits , he was condemned by Catholics and Protestants alike . Since Roger Bacon , perhaps , no great thinker had been so completely abased and thwarted by theological oppression . Near the close of the same century another great thinker , Leibnitz , though not propounding any full doctrine on evolution , gave it an impulse by suggesting a view contrary to the sacrosanct belief in the immutability of species  --  that is , to the pious doctrine that every species in the animal kingdom now exists as it left the hands of the Creator , the naming process by Adam , and the door of Noah 's ark . His punishment at the hands of the Church came a few years later , when , in 1712 , the Jesuits defeated his attempt to found an Academy of Science at Vienna . The imperial authorities covered him with honours , but the priests  --  ruling in the confessionals and pulpits  --  would not allow him the privilege of aiding his fellow-men to ascertain God 's truths revealed in Nature . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as among those whose thinking , even when mistaken , might have done much to aid in the development of a truer theory had not the theologic atmosphere of their times been so unpropitious ; but a few years after Leibnitz 's death came in France a thinker in natural science of much less influence than any of these , who made a decided step forward . Early in the eighteenth century Benoist de Maillet , a man of the world , but a wide observer and close thinker upon Nature , began meditating especially upon the origin of animal forms , and was led into the idea of the transformation of species and so into a theory of evolution , which in some important respects anticipated modern ideas . He definitely , though at times absurdly , conceived the production of existing species by the modification of their predecessors , and he plainly accepted one of the fundamental maxims of modern geology  --  that the structure of the globe must be studied in the light of the present course of Nature . But he fell between two ranks of adversaries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a freethinker ; on the other , Voltaire ridiculed him as a devotee . Feeling that his greatest danger was from the orthodox theologians , De Maillet endeavoured to protect himself by disguising his name in the title of his book , and by so wording its preface and dedication that , if persecuted , he could declare it a mere sport of fancy ; he therefore announced it as the reverie of a Hindu sage imparted to a Christian missionary . But this strategy availed nothing : he had allowed his Hindu sage to suggest that the days of creation named in Genesis might be long periods of time ; and this , with other ideas of equally fearful import , was fatal . Though the book was in type in 1735 , it was not published till 1748  --  three years after his death . On the other hand , the heterodox theology of Voltaire was also aroused ; and , as De Maillet had seen in the presence of fossils on high mountains a proof that these mountains were once below the sea , Voltaire , recognising @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ridiculed the new thinker without mercy . Unfortunately , some of De Maillet 's vagaries lent themselves admirably to Voltaire 's sarcasm ; better material for it could hardly be conceived than the theory , seriously proposed , that the first human being was born of a mermaid . Hence it was that , between these two extremes of theology , De Maillet received no recognition until , very recently , the greatest men of science in England and France have united in giving him his due . But his work was not lost , even in his own day ; Robinet and Bonnet pushed forward victoriously on helpful lines . In the second half of the eighteenth century a great barrier was thrown across this current  --  the authority of Linnaeus . He was the most eminent naturalist of his time , a wide observer , a close thinker ; but the atmosphere in which he lived and moved and had his being was saturated with biblical theology , and this permeated all his thinking . He who visits the tomb of Linnaeus to-day , entering the beautiful cathedral of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wrought in stone , the Hebrew legend of creation . In a series of medallions , the Almighty  --  in human form  --  accomplishes the work of each creative day . In due order he puts in place the solid firmament with the waters above it , the sun , moon , and stars within it , the beasts , birds , and plants below it , and finishes his task by taking man out of a little hillock of " the earth beneath , " and woman out of man 's side . Doubtless Linnaeus , as he went to his devotions , often smiled at this childlike portrayal . Yet he was never able to break away from the idea it embodied . At times , in face of the difficulties which beset the orthodox theory , he ventured to favour some slight concessions . Toward the end of his life he timidly advanced the hypothesis that all the species of one genus constituted at the creation one species ; and from the last edition of his Systema Naturae he quietly left out the strongly orthodox statement of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in his earlier works . But he made no adequate declaration . What he might expect if he openly and decidedly sanctioned a newer view he learned to his cost ; warnings came speedily both from the Catholic and Protestant sides . At a time when eminent prelates of the older Church were eulogizing debauched princes like Louis XV , and using the unspeakably obscene casuistry of the Jesuit Sanchez in the education of the priesthood as to the relations of men to women , the modesty of the Church authorities was so shocked by Linnaeus 's proofs of a sexual system in plants that for many years his writings were prohibited in the Papal States and in various other parts of Europe where clerical authority was strong enough to resist the new scientific current . Not until 1773 did one of the more broad-minded cardinals  --  Zelanda  --  succeed in gaining permission that Prof. Minasi should discuss the Linnaean system at Rome . And Protestantism was quite as oppressive . In a letter to Eloius , Linnaeus tells of the rebuke given to science by one of the great Lutheran @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Europe detailed statements had been sent to the Royal Academy of Science that water had been turned into blood , and well-meaning ecclesiastics had seen in this an indication of the wrath of God , certainly against the regions in which these miracles had occurred and possibly against the whole world . A miracle of this sort appearing in Sweden , Linnaeus looked into it carefully and found that the reddening of the water was caused by dense masses of minute insects . News of this explanation having reached the bishop , he took the field against it ; he denounced this scientific discovery as " a Satanic abyss " ( abyssum Satanae ) , and declared " The reddening of the water is NOT natural , " and " when God allows such a miracle to take place Satan endeavours , and so do his ungodly , self-reliant , self-sufficient , and worldly tools , to make it signify nothing . " In face of this onslaught Linnaeus retreated ; he tells his correspondent that " it is difficult to say anything in this matter , " and shields @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that so many millions of creatures can be so suddenly propagated , " and " it shows undoubtedly the all-wise power of the Infinite . " The great naturalist , grown old and worn with labours for science , could no longer resist the contemporary theology ; he settled into obedience to it , and while the modification of his early orthodox view was , as we have seen , quietly imbedded in the final edition of his great work , he made no special effort to impress it upon the world . To all appearance he continued to adhere to the doctrine that all existing species had been created by the Almighty " in the beginning , " and that since " the beginning " no new species had appeared . Yet even his great authority could not arrest the swelling tide ; more and more vast became the number of species , more and more incomprehensible under the old theory became the newly ascertained facts in geographical distribution , more and more it was felt that the universe and animated beings had come into existence by some process other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the question was constantly pressing , " By WHAT process ? " Throughout the whole of the eighteenth century one man was at work on natural history who might have contributed much toward an answer to this question : this man was Buffon . His powers of research and thought were remarkable , and his gift in presenting results of research and thought showed genius . He had caught the idea of an evolution in Nature by the variation of species , and was likely to make a great advance with it ; but he , too , was made to feel the power of theology . As long as he gave pleasing descriptions of animals the Church petted him , but when he began to deduce truths of philosophical import the batteries of the Sorbonne were opened upon him ; he was made to know that " the sacred deposit of truth committed to the Church " was , that " in the beginning God made the heavens and the earth " and that " all things were made at the beginning of the world . " For his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ truisms , he was , as we have seen , dragged forth by the theological faculty , forced to recant publicly , and to print his recantation . In this he announced , " I abandon everything in my book respecting the formation of the earth , and generally all which may be contrary to the narrative of Moses . " 21 21 For Descartes and his relation to the Copernican theory , see Saisset , Descartes et ses Precurseurs ; also Fouillee , Descartes , Paris , 1893 , chaps . ii and iii ; also other authorities cited in my chapter on Astronomy ; for his relation to the theory of evolution , see the Principes de Philosophie , 3eme partie , S 45 . For de Maillet , see Quatrefages , Darwin et ses Precurseurs francais , chap i , citing D'Archiac , Paleontologie , Stratigraphie , vol. i ; also , Perrier , La Philosophie zoologique avant Darwin , chap . vi ; also the admirable article Evolution , by Huxley , in Ency . Brit . The title of De Maillet 's book is Telliamed , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ la Diminution de la Mer , 1748 , 1756 . For Buffon , see the authorities previously given , also the chapter on Geology in this work . For the resistance of both Catholic and Protestant authorities to the Linnaean system and ideas , see Alberg , Life of Linnaeus , London , 1888 , pp. 143-147 , and 237 . As to the creation medallions at the Cathedral of Upsala , it is a somewhat curious coincidence that the present writer came upon them while visiting that edifice during the preparation of this chapter . But all this triumph of the Chaldeo-Babylonian creation legends which the Church had inherited availed but little . For about the end of the eighteenth century fruitful suggestions and even clear presentations of this or that part of a large evolutionary doctrine came thick and fast , and from the most divergent quarters . Especially remarkable were those which came from Erasmus Darwin in England , from Maupertuis in France , from Oken in Switzerland , and from Herder , and , most brilliantly of all , from Goethe in Germany . Two men among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Lamarck in France ; each independently of the other drew the world more completely than ever before in this direction . From Treviranus came , in 1802 , his work on biology , and in this he gave forth the idea that from forms of life originally simple had arisen all higher organizations by gradual development ; that every living feature has a capacity for receiving modifications of its structure from external influences ; and that no species had become really extinct , but that each had passed into some other species . From Lamarck came about the same time his Researches , and a little later his Zoological Philosophy , which introduced a new factor into the process of evolution  --  the action of the animal itself in its efforts toward a development to suit new needs  --  and he gave as his principal conclusions the following : 1 . Life tends to increase the volume of each living body and of all its parts up to a limit determined by its own necessities . 2 . New wants in animals give rise to new organs . 3 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employment . 4 . New developments may be transmitted to offspring . His well-known examples to illustrate these views , such as that of successive generations of giraffes lengthening their necks by stretching them to gather high-growing foliage , and of successive generations of kangaroos lengthening and strengthening their hind legs by the necessity of keeping themselves erect while jumping , provoked laughter , but the very comicality of these illustrations aided to fasten his main conclusion in men 's memories . In both these statements , imperfect as they were , great truths were embodied  --  truths which were sure to grow . Lamarck 's declaration , especially , that the development of organs is in ratio to their employment , and his indications of the reproduction in progeny of what is gained or lost in parents by the influence of circumstances , entered as a most effective force into the development of the evolution theory . The next great successor in the apostolate of this idea of the universe was Geoffroy Saint-Hilaire . As early as 1795 he had begun to form a theory that species are various modifications @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , testing it at various stages as Nature was more and more displayed to him . It fell to his lot to bear the brunt in a struggle against heavy odds which lasted many years . For the man who now took up the warfare , avowedly for science but unconsciously for theology , was the foremost naturalist then living  --  Cuvier . His scientific eminence was deserved ; the highest honours of his own and other countries were given him , and he bore them worthily . An Imperial Councillor under Napoleon ; President of the Council of Public Instruction and Chancellor of the University under the restored Bourbons ; Grand Officer of the Legion of Honour , a Peer of France , Minister of the Interior , and President of the Council of State under Louis Philippe ; he was eminent in all these capacities , and yet the dignity given by such high administrative positions was as nothing compared to his leadership in natural science . Science throughout the world acknowledged in him its chief contemporary ornament , and to this hour his fame rightly continues . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ survival of certain theological ways of looking at the universe and certain theological conceptions of a plan of creation ; it must be said , too , that while his temperament made him distrust new hypotheses , of which he had seen so many born and die , his environment as a great functionary of state , honoured , admired , almost adored by the greatest , not only in the state but in the Church , his solicitude lest science should receive some detriment by openly resisting the Church , which had recaptured Europe after the French Revolution , and had made of its enemies its footstool  --  all these considerations led him to oppose the new theory . Amid the plaudits , then , of the foremost church-men he threw across the path of the evolution doctrines the whole mass of his authority in favour of the old theory of catastrophic changes and special creations . Geoffroy Saint-Hilaire stoutly withstood him , braving non-recognition , ill-treatment , and ridicule . Treviranus , afar off in his mathematical lecture-room at Bremen , seemed simply forgotten . But the current of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a time , it broke out in new channels and in ways and places least expected ; turned away from France , it appeared especially in England , where great paleontologists and geologists arose whose work culminated in that of Lyell . Specialists throughout all the world now became more vigorous than ever , gathering facts and thinking upon them in a way which caused the special creation theory to shrink more and more . Broader and more full became these various rivulets , soon to unite in one great stream of thought . In 1813 Dr. Wells developed a theory of evolution by natural selection to account for varieties in the human race . About 182O Dean Herbert , eminent as an authority in horticulture , avowed his conviction that species are but fixed varieties . In 1831 Patrick Matthews stumbled upon and stated the main doctrine of natural selection in evolution ; and others here and there , in Europe and America , caught an inkling of it . But no one outside of a circle apparently uninfluential cared for these things : the Church was serene : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , cabinets , and universities ; in England , Dean Cockburn was denouncing Mary Somerville and the geologists to the delight of churchmen ; and the Rev. Mellor Brown was doing the same thing for the edification of dissenters . In America the mild suggestions of Silliman and his compeers were met by the protestations of the Andover theologians headed by Moses Stuart . Neither of the great English universities , as a rule , took any notice of the innovators save by sneers . To this current of thought there was joined a new element when , in 1844 , Robert Chambers published his Vestiges of Creation . The book was attractive and was widely read . In Chambers 's view the several series of animated beings , from the simplest and oldest up to the highest and most recent , were the result of two distinct impulses , each given once and for all time by the Creator . The first of these was an impulse imparted to forms of life , lifting them gradually through higher grades ; the second was an impulse tending to modify organic substances @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doctrine of the book was evolution tempered by miracle  --  a stretching out of the creative act through all time  --  a pious version of Lamarck . Two results followed , one mirth-provoking , the other leading to serious thought . The amusing result was that the theologians were greatly alarmed by the book : it was loudly insisted that it promoted atheism . Looking back along the line of thought which has since been developed , one feels that the older theologians ought to have put up thanksgivings for Chambers 's theory , and prayers that it might prove true . The more serious result was that it accustomed men 's minds to a belief in evolution as in some form possible or even probable . In this way it was provisionally of service . Eight years later Herbert Spencer published an essay contrasting the theories of creation and evolution  --  reasoning with great force in favour of the latter , showing that species had undoubtedly been modified by circumstances ; but still only few and chosen men saw the significance of all these lines of reasoning which had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ July 1 , 1858 , there were read before the Linnaean Society at London two papers  --  one presented by Charles Darwin , the other by Alfred Russel Wallace  --  and with the reading of these papers the doctrine of evolution by natural selection was born . Then and there a fatal breach was made in the great theological barrier of the continued fixity of species since the creation . The story of these papers the scientific world knows by heart : how Charles Darwin , having been sent to the University of Cambridge to fit him for the Anglican priesthood , left it in 1831 to go upon the scientific expedition of the Beagle ; how for five years he studied with wonderful vigour and acuteness the problems of life as revealed on land and at sea  --  among volcanoes and coral reefs , in forests and on the sands , from the tropics to the arctic regions ; how , in the Cape Verde and the Galapagos Islands , and in Brazil , Patagonia , and Australia he interrogated Nature with matchless persistency and skill ; how he returned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ soon set the world thinking over its first published results , such as his book on Coral Reefs , and the monograph on the Cirripedia ; and , finally , how he presented his paper , and followed it up with treatises which made him one of the great leaders in the history of human thought . The scientific world realizes , too , more and more , the power of character shown by Darwin in all this great career ; the faculty of silence , the reserve of strength seen in keeping his great thought  --  his idea of evolution by natural selection  --  under silent study and meditation for nearly twenty years , giving no hint of it to the world at large , but working in every field to secure proofs or disproofs , and accumulating masses of precious material for the solution of the questions involved . To one man only did he reveal his thought  --  to Dr. Joseph Hooker , to whom in 1844 , under the seal of secrecy , he gave a summary of his conclusions . Not until fourteen years later occurred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had come  --  the letter from Alfred Russel Wallace , to whom , in brilliant researches during the decade from 1848 to 1858 , in Brazil and in the Malay Archipelago , the same truth of evolution by natural selection had been revealed . Among the proofs that scientific study does no injury to the more delicate shades of sentiment is the well-known story of this letter . With it Wallace sent Darwin a memoir , asking him to present it to the Linnaean Society : on examining it , Darwin found that Wallace had independently arrived at conclusions similar to his own  --  possibly had deprived him of fame ; but Darwin was loyal to his friend , and his friend remained ever loyal to him . He publicly presented the paper from Wallace , with his own conclusions ; and the date of this presentation  --  July 1 , 1858  --  separates two epochs in the history , not merely of natural science , but of human thought . In the following year , 1859 , came the first instalment of his work in its fuller development  --  his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one at least of the main secrets at the heart of the evolutionary process , which had baffled the long line of investigators and philosophers from the days of Aristotle , was more broadly revealed . The effective mechanism of evolution was shown at work in three ascertained facts : in the struggle for existence among organized beings ; in the survival of the fittest ; and in heredity . These facts were presented with such minute research , wide observation , patient collation , transparent honesty , and judicial fairness , that they at once commanded the world 's attention . It was the outcome of thirty years ' work and thought by a worker and thinker of genius , but it was yet more than that  --  it was the outcome , also , of the work and thought of another man of genius fifty years before . The book of Malthus on the Principle of Population , mainly founded on the fact that animals increase in a geometrical ratio , and therefore , if unchecked , must encumber the earth , had been generally forgotten , and was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Darwin recognised in it a deeper meaning , and now the thought of Malthus was joined to the new current . Meditating upon it in connection with his own observations of the luxuriance of Nature , Darwin had arrived at his doctrine of natural selection and survival of the fittest . As the great dogmatic barrier between the old and new views of the universe was broken down , the flood of new thought pouring over the world stimulated and nourished strong growths in every field of research and reasoning : edition after edition of the book was called for ; it was translated even into Japanese and Hindustani ; the stagnation of scientific thought , which Buckle , only a few years before , had so deeply lamented , gave place to a widespread and fruitful activity ; masses of accumulated observations , which had seemed stale and unprofitable , were made alive ; facts formerly without meaning now found their interpretation . Under this new influence an army of young men took up every promising line of scientific investigation in every land . Epoch-making books appeared in all the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Tyndall , Tylor , Lubbock , Bagehot , Lewes , in England , and a phalanx of strong men in Germany , Italy , France , and America gave forth works which became authoritative in every department of biology . If some of the older men in France held back , overawed perhaps by the authority of Cuvier , the younger and more vigorous pressed on . One source of opposition deserves to be especially mentioned  --  Louis Agassiz . A great investigator , an inspired and inspiring teacher , a noble man , he had received and elaborated a theory of animated creation which he could not readily change . In his heart and mind still prevailed the atmosphere of the little Swiss parsonage in which he was born , and his religious and moral nature , so beautiful to all who knew him , was especially repelled by sundry evolutionists , who , in their zeal as neophytes , made proclamations seeming to have a decidedly irreligious if not immoral bearing . In addition to this was the direction his thinking had received from Cuvier . Both these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He was the third great man who had thrown his influence as a barrier across the current of evolutionary thought . Linnaeus in the second half of the eighteenth century , Cuvier in the first half , and Agassiz in the second half of the nineteenth  --  all made the same effort . Each remains great ; but not all of them together could arrest the current . Agassiz 's strong efforts throughout the United States , and indeed throughout Europe , to check it , really promoted it . From the great museum he had founded at Cambridge , from his summer school at Penikese , from his lecture rooms at Harvard and Cornell , his disciples went forth full of love and admiration for him , full of enthusiasm which he had stirred and into fields which he had indicated ; but their powers , which he had aroused and strengthened , were devoted to developing the truth he failed to recognise ; Shaler , Verrill , Packard , Hartt , Wilder , Jordan , with a multitude of others , and especially the son who bore his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what they had received from him to research under inspiration of the new revelation . Still another man deserves especial gratitude and honour in this progress  --  Edward Livingston Youmans . He was perhaps the first in America to recognise the vast bearings of the truths presented by Darwin , Wallace , and Spencer . He became the apostle of these truths , sacrificing the brilliant career on which he had entered as a public lecturer , subordinating himself to the three leaders , and giving himself to editorial drudgery in the stimulation of research and the announcement of results . In support of the new doctrine came a world of new proofs ; those which Darwin himself added in regard to the cross-fertilization of plants , and which he had adopted from embryology , led the way , and these were followed by the discoveries of Wallace , Bates , Huxley , Marsh , Cope , Leidy , Haeckel , Muller , Gaudry , and a multitude of others in all lands. 22 22 For Agassiz 's opposition to evolution , see the Essay on Classification , vol. i , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as regards Darwin ; also Silliman 's Journal , July 1860 ; also the Atlantic Monthly , January 1874 ; also his Life and Correspondence , vol. ii , p. 647 ; also Asa Gray , Scientific Papers , vol. ii , p. 484 . A reminiscence of my own enables me to appreciate his deep ethical and religious feeling . I was passing the day with him at Nahant in 1868 , consulting him regarding candidates for various scientific chairs at the newly established Cornell University , in which he took a deep interest . As we discussed one after another of the candidates , he suddenly said : " Who is to be your Professor of Moral Philosophy ? That is a far more important position than all the others . " IV . THE FINAL EFFORT OF THEOLOGY . Darwin 's Origin of Species had come into the theological world like a plough into an ant-hill . Everywhere those thus rudely awakened from their old comfort and repose had swarmed forth angry and confused . Reviews , sermons , books light and heavy , came flying at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at once in the Quarterly Review by Wilberforce , Bishop of Oxford . He declared that Darwin was guilty of " a tendency to limit God 's glory in creation " ; that " the principle of natural selection is absolutely incompatible with the word of God " ; that it " contradicts the revealed relations of creation to its Creator " ; that it is " inconsistent with the fulness of his glory " ; that it is " a dishonouring view of Nature " ; and that there is " a simpler explanation of the presence of these strange forms among the works of God " : that explanation being  --  " the fall of Adam . " Nor did the bishop 's efforts end here ; at the meeting of the British Association for the Advancement of Science he again disported himself in the tide of popular applause . Referring to the ideas of Darwin , who was absent on account of illness , he congratulated himself in a public speech that he was not descended from a monkey . The reply came from Huxley , who said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I would prefer to be a descendant of a humble monkey rather than of a man who employs his knowledge and eloquence in misrepresenting those who are wearing out their lives in the search for truth . " This shot reverberated through England , and indeed through other countries . The utterances of this the most brilliant prelate of the Anglican Church received a sort of antiphonal response from the leaders of the English Catholics . In an address before the " Academia , " which had been organized to combat " science falsely so called , " Cardinal Manning declared his abhorrence of the new view of Nature , and described it as " a brutal philosophy  --  to wit , there is no God , and the ape is our Adam . " These attacks from such eminent sources set the clerical fashion for several years . One distinguished clerical reviewer , in spite of Darwin 's thirty years of quiet labour , and in spite of the powerful summing up of his book , prefaced a diatribe by saying that Darwin " might have been more modest had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ generally entertained . " Another distinguished clergyman , vice-president of a Protestant institute to combat " dangerous " science , declared Darwinism " an attempt to dethrone God . " Another critic spoke of persons accepting the Darwinian views as " under the frenzied inspiration of the inhaler of mephitic gas , " and of Darwin 's argument as " a jungle of fanciful assumption . " Another spoke of Darwin 's views as suggesting that " God is dead , " and declared that Darwin 's work " does open violence to everything which the Creator himself has told us in the Scriptures of the methods and results of his work . " Still another theological authority asserted : " If the Darwinian theory is true , Genesis is a lie , the whole framework of the book of life falls to pieces , and the revelation of God to man , as we Christians know it , is a delusion and a snare . " Another , who had shown excellent qualities as an observing naturalist , declared the Darwinian view " a huge imposture from the beginning . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organ of the most widespread of American religious sects , declared that Darwin was " attempting to befog and to pettifog the whole question " ; another denounced Darwin 's views as " infidelity " ; another , representing the American branch of the Anglican Church , poured contempt over Darwin as " sophistical and illogical , " and then plunged into an exceedingly dangerous line of argument in the following words : " If this hypothesis be true , then is the Bible an unbearable fiction ; ... then have Christians for nearly two thousand years been duped by a monstrous lie .... Darwin requires us to disbelieve the authoritative word of the Creator . " A leading journal representing the same church took pains to show the evolution theory to be as contrary to the explicit declarations of the New Testament as to those of the Old , and said : " If we have all , men and monkeys , oysters and eagles , developed from an original germ , then is St. Paul 's grand deliverance  --  All flesh is not the same flesh ; there is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , another of fishes , and another of birds '  --  untrue . " Another echo came from Australia , where Dr. Perry , Lord Bishop of Melbourne , in a most bitter book on Science and the Bible , declared that the obvious object of Chambers , Darwin , and Huxley is " to produce in their readers a disbelief of the Bible . " Nor was the older branch of the Church to be left behind in this chorus . Bayma , in the Catholic World , declared , " Mr. Darwin is , we have reason to believe , the mouthpiece or chief trumpeter of that infidel clique whose well-known object is to do away with all idea of a God . " Worthy of especial note as showing the determination of the theological side at that period was the foundation of sacro-scientific organizations to combat the new ideas . First to be noted is the " Academia , " planned by Cardinal Wiseman . In a circular letter the cardinal , usually so moderate and just , sounded an alarm and summed up by saying , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ divine certainty and divine discernment , to place itself at once in the front of a movement which threatens even the fragmentary remains of Christian belief in England . " The necessary permission was obtained from Rome , the Academia was founded , and the " divine discernment " of the Church was seen in the utterances which came from it , such as those of Cardinal Manning , which every thoughtful Catholic would now desire to recall , and in the diatribes of Dr. Laing , which only aroused laughter on all sides . A similar effort was seen in Protestant quarters ; the " Victoria institute " was created , and perhaps the most noted utterance which ever came from it was the declaration of its vice-president , the Rev. Walter Mitchell , that " Darwinism endeavours to dethrone God . " 23 23 For Wilberforce 's article , see Quarterly Review , July , 1860 . For the reply of Huxley to the bishop 's speech I have relied on the account given in Quatrefages , who had it from Carpenter ; a somewhat different version is given @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Manning 's attack , see Essays on Religion and Literature , London , 1865 . For the review articles , see the Quarterly already cited , and that for July , 1874 ; also the North British Review , May 1860 ; also , F. O. Morris 's letter in the Record , reprinted at Glasgow , 1870 ; also the Addresses of Rev. Walter Mitchell before the Victoria Institute , London , 1867 ; also Rev. B. G. Johns , Moses not Darwin , a Sermon , March 31 , 1871 . For the earlier American attacks , see Methodist Quarterly Review , April 1871 ; The American Church Review , July and October , 1865 , and January , 1866 . For the Australian attack , see Science and the Bible , by the Right Reverand Charles Perry , D. D. , Bishop of Melbourne , London , 1869 . For Bayma , see the Catholic World , vol. xxvi , p.782 . For the Academia , see Essays edited by Cardinal Manning , above cited ; and for the Victoria Institute , see Scientia Scientarum , by a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In France the attack was even more violent . Fabre d'Envieu brought out the heavy artillery of theology , and in a long series of elaborate propositions demonstrated that any other doctrine than that of the fixity and persistence of species is absolutely contrary to Scripture . The Abbe Desorges , a former Professor of Theology , stigmatized Darwin as a " pedant , " and evolution as " gloomy " . Monseigneur Segur , referring to Darwin and his followers , went into hysterics and shrieked : " These infamous doctrines have for their only support the most abject passions . Their father is pride , their mother impurity , their offspring revolutions . They come from hell and return thither , taking with them the gross creatures who blush not to proclaim and accept them . " In Germany the attack , if less declamatory , was no less severe . Catholic theologians vied with Protestants in bitterness . Prof. Michelis declared Darwin 's theory " a caricature of creation . " Dr. Hagermann asserted that it " turned the Creator out of doors . " Dr. Schund insisted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the first to the last page , stands in diametrical opposition to the Darwinian theory " ; and , " if Darwin be right in his view of the development of man out of a brutal condition , then the Bible teaching in regard to man is utterly annihilated . " Rougemont in Switzerland called for a crusade against the obnoxious doctrine . Luthardt , Professor of Theology at Leipsic , declared : " The idea of creation belongs to religion and not to natural science ; the whole superstructure of personal religion is built upon the doctrine of creation " ; and he showed the evolution theory to be in direct contradiction to Holy Writ . But in 1863 came an event which brought serious confusion to the theological camp : Sir Charles Lyell , the most eminent of living geologists , a man of deeply Christian feeling and of exceedingly cautious temper , who had opposed the evolution theory of Lamarck and declared his adherence to the idea of successive creations , then published his work on the Antiquity of Man , and in this and other utterances showed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Darwin . The blow was serious in many ways , and especially so in two  --  first , as withdrawing all foundation in fact from the scriptural chronology , and secondly , as discrediting the creation theory . The blow was not unexpected ; in various review articles against the Darwinian theory there had been appeals to Lyell , at times almost piteous , " not to flinch from the truths he had formerly proclaimed . " But Lyell , like the honest man he was , yielded unreservedly to the mass of new proofs arrayed on the side of evolution against that of creation . At the same time came Huxley 's Man 's Place in Nature , giving new and most cogent arguments in favour of evolution by natural selection . In 1871 was published Darwin 's Descent of Man . Its doctrine had been anticipated by critics of his previous books , but it made , none the less , a great stir ; again the opposing army trooped forth , though evidently with much less heart than before . A few were very violent . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ charged Mr. Darwin with seeking " to displace God by the unerring action of vagary , " and with being " resolved to hunt God out of the world . " But most notable from the side of the older Church was the elaborate answer to Darwin 's book by the eminent French Catholic physician , Dr. Constantin James . In his work , On Darwinism , or the Man-Ape , published at Paris in 1877 , Dr. James not only refuted Darwin scientifically but poured contempt on his book , calling it " a fairy tale , " and insisted that a work " so fantastic and so burlesque " was , doubtless , only a huge joke , like Erasmus 's Praise of Folly , or Montesquieu 's Persian Letters . The princes of the Church were delighted . The Cardinal Archbishop of Paris assured the author that the book had become his " spiritual reading , " and begged him to send a copy to the Pope himself . His Holiness , Pope Pius IX , acknowledged the gift in a remarkable letter . He thanked his dear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he " refutes so well the aberrations of Darwinism . " " A system , " His Holiness adds , " which is repugnant at once to history , to the tradition of all peoples , to exact science , to observed facts , and even to Reason herself , would seem to need no refutation , did not alienation from God and the leaning toward materialism , due to depravity , eagerly seek a support in all this tissue of fables .... And , in fact , pride , after rejecting the Creator of all things and proclaiming man independent , wishing him to be his own king , his own priest , and his own God  --  pride goes so far as to degrade man himself to the level of the unreasoning brutes , perhaps even of lifeless matter , thus unconsciously confirming the Divine declaration , WHEN PRIDE COMETH , THEN COMETH SHAME . But the corruption of this age , the machinations of the perverse , the danger of the simple , demand that such fancies , altogether absurd though they are , should  --  since they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ science . " Wherefore the Pope thanked Dr. James for his book , " so opportune and so perfectly appropriate to the exigencies of our time , " and bestowed on him the apostolic benediction . Nor was this brief all . With it there came a second , creating the author an officer of the Papal Order of St. Sylvester . The cardinal archbishop assured the delighted physician that such a double honour of brief and brevet was perhaps unprecedented , and suggested only that in a new edition of his book he should " insist a little more on the relation existing between the narratives of Genesis and the discoveries of modern science , in such fashion as to convince the most incredulous of their perfect agreement . " The prelate urged also a more dignified title . The proofs of this new edition were accordingly all submitted to His Eminence , and in 1882 it appeared as Moses and Darwin : the Man of Genesis compared with the Man-Ape , or Religious Education opposed to Atheistic . No wonder the cardinal embraced the author , thanking him in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at last , " he declared , " a handbook which we can safely put into the hands of youth . " Scarcely less vigorous were the champions of English Protestant orthodoxy . In an address at Liverpool , Mr. Gladstone remarked : " Upon the grounds of what is termed evolution God is relieved of the labour of creation ; in the name of unchangeable laws he is discharged from governing the world " ; and , when Herbert Spencer called his attention to the fact that Newton with the doctrine of gravitation and with the science of physical astronomy is open to the same charge , Mr. Gladstone retreated in the Contemporary Review under one of his characteristic clouds of words . The Rev. Dr. Coles , in the British and Foreign Evangelical Review , declared that the God of evolution is not the Christian 's God . Burgon , Dean of Chichester , in a sermon preached before the University of Oxford , pathetically warned the students that " those who refuse to accept the history of the creation of our first parents according to its obvious literal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evolution in its place , cause the entire scheme of man 's salvation to collapse . " Dr. Pusey also came into the fray with most earnest appeals against the new doctrine , and the Rev. Gavin Carlyle was perfervid on the same side . The Society for Promoting Christian Knowledge published a book by the Rev. Mr. Birks , in which the evolution doctrine was declared to be " flatly opposed to the fundamental doctrine of creation . " Even the London Times admitted a review stigmatizing Darwin 's Descent of Man as an " utterly unsupported hypothesis , " full of " unsubstantiated premises , cursory investigations , and disintegrating speculations , " and Darwin himself as " reckless and unscientific. " 24 24 For the French theological oppostition to the Darwinian theory , see Pozzy , La Terre at le Recit Biblique de la Creation , 1874 , especially pp. 353 , 363 ; also Felix Ducane , Etudes sur la Transformisme , 1876 , especially pp. 107 to 119 . As to Fabre d'Envieu , see especially his Proposition xliii . For the Abbe Desogres , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Erreurs Modernes , Paris , 1878 , pp. 677 and 595 to 598 . For Monseigneur Segur , see his La Foi devant la Science Moderne , sixth ed. , Paris , 1874 , pp. 23 , 34 , etc . For Herbert Spencer 's reply to Mr. Gladstone , see his study of Sociology ; for the passage in the Dublin Review , see the issue for July , 1871 . For the Review in the London Times , see Nature for April 20 , 1871 . For Gavin Carlyle , see The Battle of Unbelief , 1870 , pp. 86 and 171 . For the attacks by Michelis and Hagermann , see Natur und Offenbarung , Munster , 1861 to 1869 . For Schund , see his Darwin 's Hypothese und ihr Verhaaltniss zu Religion und Moral , Stuttgart , 1869 . For Luthardt , see Fundamental Truths of Christianity , translated by Sophia Taylor , second ed. , Edinburgh , 1869 . For Rougemont , see his L'Homme et le Singe , Neuchatel , 1863 ( also in German trans . ) . For Constantin James , see @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Paris , 1888 , where the papal briefs are printed in full . For the English attacks on Darwin 's Descent of Man , see the Edinburgh Review July , 1871 and elsewhere ; the Dublin Review , July , 1871 ; the British and Foreign Evangelical Review , April , 1886 . See also The Scripture Doctrine of Creation , by the Rev. T. R. Birks , London , 1873 , published by the S. P. C. K. For Dr. Pusey 's attack , see his Unscience , not Science , adverse to Faith , 1878 ; also Darwin 's Life and Letters , vol. ii , pp. 411 , 412 . But it was noted that this second series of attacks , on the Descent of Man , differed in one remarkable respect  --  so far as England was concerned  --  from those which had been made over ten years before on the Origin of Species . While everything was done to discredit Darwin , to pour contempt upon him , and even , of all things in the world , to make him  --  the gentlest of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problem  --  " a persecutor of Christianity , " while his followers were represented more and more as charlatans or dupes , there began to be in the most influential quarters careful avoidance of the old argument that evolution  --  even by natural selection  --  contradicts Scripture . It began to be felt that this was dangerous ground . The defection of Lyell had , perhaps , more than anything else , started the question among theologians who had preserved some equanimity , " WHAT IF , AFTER ALL , THE DARWINIAN THEORY SHOULD PROVE TO BE TRUE ? " Recollections of the position in which the Roman Church found itself after the establishment of the doctrines of Copernicus and Galileo naturally came into the minds of the more thoughtful . In Germany this consideration does not seem to have occurred at quite so early a day . One eminent Lutheran clergyman at Magdeburg called on his hearers to choose between Darwin and religion ; Delitszch , in his new commentary on Genesis , attempted to bring science back to recognise human sin as an important factor in creation ; Prof. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the scriptural doctrine and evolution , comforted himself by covering Darwin and his followers with contempt ; Christlieb , in his address before the Evangelical Alliance at New York in 1873 , simply took the view that the tendencies of the Darwinian theory were " toward infidelity , " but declined to make any serious battle on biblical grounds ; the Jesuit , Father Pesch , in Holland , drew up in Latin , after the old scholastic manner , a sort of general indictment of evolution , of which one may say that it was interesting  --  as interesting as the display of a troop in chain armour and with cross-bows on a nineteenth-century battlefield . From America there came new echoes . Among the myriad attacks on the Darwinian theory by Protestants and Catholics two should be especially mentioned . The first of these was by Dr. Noah Porter , President of Yale College , an excellent scholar , an interesting writer , a noble man , broadly tolerant , combining in his thinking a curious mixture of radicalism and conservatism . While giving great latitude to the evolutionary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it his duty upon one occasion to avow his disbelief in it ; but he was too wise a man to suggest any necessary antagonism between it and the Scriptures . He confined himself mainly to pointing out the tendency of the evolution doctrine in this form toward agnosticism and pantheism . To those who knew and loved him , and had noted the genial way in which by wise neglect he had allowed scientific studies to flourish at Yale , there was an amusing side to all this . Within a stone 's throw of his college rooms was the Museum of Paleontology , in which Prof. Marsh had laid side by side , among other evidences of the new truth , that wonderful series of specimens showing the evolution of the horse from the earliest form of the animal , " not larger than a fox , with five toes , " through the whole series up to his present form and size  --  that series which Huxley declared an absolute proof of the existence of natural selection as an agent in evolution . In spite of the veneration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it was hardly to be expected that these particular arguments of his would have much permanent effect upon them when there was constantly before their eyes so convincing a refutation . But a far more determined opponent was the Rev. Dr. Hodge , of Princeton ; his anger toward the evolution doctrine was bitter : he denounced it as thoroughly " atheistic " ; he insisted that Christians " have a right to protest against the arraying of probabilities against the clear evidence of the Scriptures " ; he even censured so orthodox a writer as the Duke of Argyll , and declared that the Darwinian theory of natural selection is " utterly inconsistent with the Scriptures , " and that " an absent God , who does nothing , is to us no God " ; that " to ignore design as manifested in God 's creation is to dethrone God " ; that " a denial of design in Nature is virtually a denial of God " ; and that " no teleologist can be a Darwinian . " Even more uncompromising was another of the leading authorities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He declared war not only against Darwin but even against men like Asa Gray , Le Conte , and others , who had attempted to reconcile the new theory with the Bible : he insisted that " evolutionism and the scriptural account of the origin of man are irreconcilable "  --  that the Darwinian theory is " in direct conflict with the teaching of the apostle , All scripture is given by inspiration of God ' " ; he pointed out , in his opposition to Darwin 's Descent of Man and Lyell 's Antiquity of Man , that in the Bible " the genealogical links which connect the Israelites in Egypt with Adam and Eve in Eden are explicitly given . " These utterances of Prof. Duffield culminated in a declaration which deserves to be cited as showing that a Presbyterian minister can " deal damnation round the land " ex cathedra in a fashion quite equal to that of popes and bishops . It is as follows : " If the development theory of the origin of man , " wrote Dr. Duffield in the Princeton Review , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doubtless it will  --  with other exploded scientific speculations , then they who accept it with its proper logical consequences will in the life to come have their portion with those who in this life know not God and obey not the gospel of his Son . ' " Fortunately , at about the time when Darwin 's Descent of Man was published , there had come into Princeton University " deus ex machina " in the person of Dr. James McCosh . Called to the presidency , he at once took his stand against teachings so dangerous to Christianity as those of Drs . Hodge , Duffield , and their associates . In one of his personal confidences he has let us into the secret of this matter . With that hard Scotch sense which Thackeray had applauded in his well-known verses , he saw that the most dangerous thing which could be done to Christianity at Princeton was to reiterate in the university pulpit , week after week , solemn declarations that if evolution by natural selection , or indeed evolution at all , be true , the Scriptures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this was the certain way to make the students unbelievers ; he therefore not only checked this dangerous preaching but preached an opposite doctrine . With him began the inevitable compromise , and , in spite of mutterings against him as a Darwinian , he carried the day . Whatever may be thought of his general system of philosophy , no one can deny his great service in neutralizing the teachings of his predecessors and colleagues  --  so dangerous to all that is essential in Christianity . Other divines of strong sense in other parts of the country began to take similar ground  --  namely , that men could be Christians and at the same time Darwinians . There appeared , indeed , here and there , curious discrepancies : thus in 1873 the Monthly Religious Magazine of Boston congratulated its readers that the Rev. Mr. Burr had " demolished the evolution theory , knocking the breath of life out of it and throwing it to the dogs . " This amazing performance by the Rev. Mr. Burr was repeated in a very striking way by Bishop Keener before the Oecumenical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the newspapers described as an " admirable speech , " he refuted evolution doctrines by saying that evolutionists had " only to make a journey of twelve hours from the place where he was then standing to find together the bones of the muskrat , the opossum , the coprolite , and the ichthyosaurus . " He asserted that Agassiz  --  whom the good bishop , like so many others , seemed to think an evolutionist  --  when he visited these beds near Charleston , declared : " These old beds have set me crazy ; they have destroyed the work of a lifetime . " And the Methodist prelate ended by saying : " Now , gentlemen , brethren , take these facts home with you ; get down and look at them . This is the watch that was under the steam hammer  --  the doctrine of evolution ; and this steam hammer is the wonderful deposit of the Ashley beds . " Exhibitions like these availed little . While the good bishop amid vociferous applause thus made comically evident his belief that Agassiz was a Darwinian and a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parts of the world facts confirming the dreaded theory of an evolution by natural selection . While the Rev. Mr. Burr was so loudly praised for " throwing Darwinism to the dogs , " Marsh was completing his series leading from the five-toed ungulates to the horse . While Dr. Tayler Lewis at Union , and Drs . Hodge and Duffield at Princeton , were showing that if evolution be true the biblical accounts must be false , the indefatigable Yale professor was showing his cretaceous birds , and among them Hesperornis and Ichthyornis with teeth . While in Germany Luthardt , Schund , and their compeers were demonstrating that Scripture requires a belief in special and separate creations , the Archaeopteryx , showing a most remarkable connection between birds and reptiles , was discovered . While in France Monseigneur Segur and others were indulging in diatribes against " a certain Darwin , " Gaudry and Filhol were discovering a striking series of " missing links " among the carnivora . In view of the proofs accumulating in favour of the new evolutionary hypothesis , the change in the tone of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evidences of desire to compromise with the theory . Strict adherents of the biblical text pointed significantly to the verses in Genesis in which the earth and sea were made to bring forth birds and fishes , and man was created out of the dust of the ground . Men of larger mind like Kingsley and Farrar , with English and American broad churchmen generally , took ground directly in Darwin 's favour . Even Whewell took pains to show that there might be such a thing as a Darwinian argument for design in Nature ; and the Rev. Samuel Houghton , of the Royal Society , gave interesting suggestions of a divine design in evolution . Both the great English universities received the new teaching as a leaven : at Oxford , in the very front of the High Church party at Keble College , was elaborated a statement that the evolution doctrine is " an advance in our theological thinking . " And Temple , Bishop of London , perhaps the most influential thinker then in the Anglican episcopate , accepted the new revelation in the following words : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to whom a thousand years are as one day , thus to impress his will once for all on his creation , and provide for all the countless varieties by this one original impress , than by special acts of creation to be perpetually modifying what he had previously made . " In Scotland the Duke of Argyll , head and front of the orthodox party , dissenting in many respects from Darwin 's full conclusions , made concessions which badly shook the old position . Curiously enough , from the Roman Catholic Church , bitter as some of its writers had been , now came argument to prove that the Catholic faith does not prevent any one from holding the Darwinian theory , and especially a declaration from an authority eminent among American Catholics  --  a declaration which has a very curious sound , but which it would be ungracious to find fault with  --  that " the doctrine of evolution is no more in opposition to the doctrine of the Catholic Church than is the Copernican theory or that of Galileo . " Here and there , indeed , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in view of theological considerations , sought to make conditions ; but the current was too strong , and eminent theologians in every country accepted natural selection as at least a very important part in the mechanism of evolution . At the death of Darwin it was felt that there was but one place in England where his body should be laid , and that this place was next the grave of Sir Isaac Newton in Westminster Abbey . The noble address of Canon Farrar at his funeral was echoed from many pulpits in Europe and America , and theological opposition as such was ended . Occasionally appeared , it is true , a survival of the old feeling : the Rev. Dr. Laing referred to the burial of Darwin in Westminster Abbey as " a proof that England is no longer a Christian country , " and added that this burial was a desecration  --  that this honour was given him because he had been " the chief promoter of the mock doctrine of evolution of the species and the ape descent of man . " Still another of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Carlyle . Soured and embittered , in the same spirit which led him to find more heroism in a marauding Viking or in one of Frederick the Great 's generals than in Washington , or Lincoln , or Grant , and which caused him to see in the American civil war only the burning out of a foul chimney , he , with the petulance natural to a dyspeptic eunuch , railed at Darwin as an " apostle of dirt worship . " The last echoes of these utterances reverberated between Scotland and America . In the former country , in 1885 , the Rev. Dr. Lee issued a volume declaring that , if the Darwinian view be true , " there is no place for God " ; that " by no method of interpretation can the language of Holy Scripture be made wide enough to re-echo the orang-outang theory of man 's natural history " ; that " Darwinism reverses the revelation of God " and " implies utter blasphemy against the divine and human character of our Incarnate Lord " ; and he was pleased to call Darwin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In one of the intellectual centres of America the editor of a periodical called The Christian urged frantically that " the battle be set in array , and that men find out who is on the Lord 's side and who is on the side of the devil and the monkeys . " To the honour of the Church of England it should be recorded that a considerable number of her truest men opposed such utterances as these , and that one of them  --  Farrar , Archdeacon of Westminster  --  made a protest worthy to be held in perpetual remembrance . While confessing his own inability to accept fully the new scientific belief , he said : " We should consider it disgraceful and humiliating to try to shake it by an ad captandum argument , or by a clap-trap platform appeal to the unfathomable ignorance and unlimited arrogance of a prejudiced assembly . We should blush to meet it with an anathema or a sneer . " All opposition had availed nothing ; Darwin 's work and fame were secure . As men looked back over his beautiful life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thought upon his great labours in the search for truth , all the attacks faded into nothingness . There were indeed some dark spots , which as time goes on appear darker . At Trinity College , Cambridge , Whewell , the " omniscient , " author of the History of the Inductive Sciences , refused to allow a copy of the Origin of Species to be placed in the library . At multitudes of institutions under theological control  --  Protestant as well as Catholic  --  attempts were made to stamp out or to stifle evolutionary teaching . Especially was this true for a time in America , and the case of the American College at Beyrout , where nearly all the younger professors were dismissed for adhering to Darwin 's views , is worthy of remembrance . The treatment of Dr. Winchell at the Vanderbilt University in Tennessee showed the same spirit ; one of the truest of men , devoted to science but of deeply Christian feeling , he was driven forth for views which centred in the Darwinian theory . Still more striking was the case of Dr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a professorship of Natural Science as connected with Revealed Religion , in the Presbyterian Seminary at Columbia , South Carolina . He was a devoted Christian man , and his training had led him to accept the Presbyterian standards of faith . With great gifts for scientific study he visited Europe , made a most conscientious examination of the main questions under discussion , and adopted the chief points in the doctrine of evolution by natural selection . A struggle soon began . A movement hostile to him grew more and more determined , and at last , in spite of the efforts made in his behalf by the directors of the seminary and by a large and broad-minded minority in the representative bodies controlling it , an orthodox storm , raised by the delegates from various Presbyterian bodies , drove him from his post . Fortunately , he was received into a professorship at the University of South Carolina , where he has since taught with more power than ever before . This testimony to the faith by American provincial Protestantism was very properly echoed from Spanish provincial Catholicism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ science , Dr. Chil y Marango , published a work on the Canary Islands . But Dr. Chil had the imprudence to sketch , in his introduction , the modern hypothesis of evolution , and to exhibit some proofs , found in the Canary Islands , of the barbarism of primitive man . The ecclesiastical authorities , under the lead of Bishop Urquinaona y Bidot , at once grappled with this new idea . By a solemn act they declared it " falsa , impia , scandalosa " ; all persons possessing copies of the work were ordered to surrender them at once to the proper ecclesiastics , and the author was placed under the major excommunication . But all this opposition may be reckoned among the last expiring convulsions of the old theologic theory . Even from the new Catholic University at Washington has come an utterance in favour of the new doctrine , and in other universities in the Old World and in the New the doctrine of evolution by natural selection has asserted its right to full and honest consideration . More than this , it is clearly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in these latter days , not only relinquished the struggle against science in this field , but have determined frankly and manfully to make an alliance with it . In two very remarkable lectures given in 1892 at the parish church of Rochdale , Wilson , Archdeacon of Manchester , not only accepted Darwinism as true , but wrought it with great argumentative power into a higher view of Christianity ; and what is of great significance , these sermons were published by the same Society for the Promotion of Christian Knowledge which only a few years before had published the most bitter attacks against the Darwinian theory . So , too , during the year 1893 , Prof. Henry Drummond , whose praise is in all the dissenting churches , developed a similar view most brilliantly in a series of lectures delivered before the American Chautauqua schools , and published in one of the most widespread of English orthodox newspapers . Whatever additional factors may be added to natural selection  --  and Darwin himself fully admitted that there might be others  --  the theory of an evolution process in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the old theory of direct creation is gone forever . In place of it science has given us conceptions far more noble , and opened the way to an argument for design infinitely more beautiful than any ever developed by theology. 24 24 For the causes of bitterness shown regarding the Darwinian hypothesis , see Reusch , Bibel und Natur , vol. ii , pp. 46 et seq . For hostility in the United States regarding the Darwinian theory , see , among a multitude of writers , the following : Dr. Charles Hodge , of Princeton , monograph , What is Darwinism ? New York , 1874 ; also his Systematic Theology , New York , 1872 , vol. ii , part 2 , Anthropology ; also The Light by which we see Light , or Nature and the Scriptures , Vedder Lectures , 1875 , Rutgers College , New York , 1875 ; also Positivism and Evolutionism , in the American Catholic Quarterly , October 1877 , pp. 607 , 619 ; and in the same number , Professor Huxley and Evolution , by Rev. A. M. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Evolution , by Prof. Edward F. X. McSweeney , D. D. , July , 1879 , p. 561 ; Das Hexaemeron und die Geologie , von P. Eirich , Pastor in Albany , N. Y. , Lutherischer Concordia-Verlag , St. Louis , Mo. , 1878 , pp. 81 , 82 , 84 , 92-94 ; Evolutionism respecting Man and the Bible , by John T. Duffield , of Princeton , January , 1878 , Princeton Review , pp. 151 , 153 , 154 , 158 , 159 , 160 , 188 ; a Lecture on Evolution , before the Nineteenth Century Club of New York , May 25 , 1886 , by ex-President Noah Porter , pp. 4 , 26-29 . For the laudatory notice of the Rev. E. F. Burr 's demolition of evolution in his book Pater Mundi , see Monthly Religious Magazine , Boston , May , 1873 , p. 492 . Concerning the removal of Dr. James Woodrow , Professor of Natural Science in the Columbia Theological Seminary , see Evolution or Not , in the New York Weekly Sun , October 24 , 1888 . For @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Darwinian exposition , see the Revue d'Anthropologie , cited in the Academy for April 6 , 1878 ; see also the Catholic World , xix , 433 , A Discussion with an Infidel , directed against Dr. Louis Buchner and his Kraft und Stoff ; also Mind and Matter , by Rev. james Tait , of Canada , p. 66 ( in the third edition the author bemoans the " horrible plaudits " that " have accompanied every effort to establish man 's brutal descent " ) ; also The Church Journal , New York , May 28 , 1874 . For the effort in favour of a teleological evolution , see Rev. Samuel Houghton , F. R. S. , Principles of Animal Mechanics , London , 1873 , preface and p. 156 and elsewhere . For the details of the persecutions of Drs . Winchell and Woodrow , and of the Beyrout professors , with authorities cited , see my chapter on The Fall of Man and Anthropology . For more liberal views among religious thinkers regarding the Darwinian theory , and for efforts to mitigate and adapt it to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ utterances , the following : Charles Kingsley 's letters to Darwin , November 18 , 1859 , in Darwin 's Life and Letters , vol. ii , p. 82 ; Adam Sedgwick to Charles Darwin , December 24 , 1859 , see ibid. , vol. ii , pp. 356-359 ; the same to Miss Gerard , January 2 , 1860 , see Sedgewick 's Life and Letters , vol. ii , pp. 359 , 360 ; the same in The Spectator , London , March 24 , 1860 ; The Rambler , March 1860 , cited by Mivart , Genesis of Species , p. 30 ; The Dublin Review , May , 1860 ; The Christian Examiner , May , 1860 ; Charles Kingsley to F. D. Maurice in 1863 , in Kingsley 's Life , vol. ii , p. 171 ; Adam Sedgwick to Livingstone ( the explorer ) , March 16 , 1865 , in Life and Letters of Sedgwick , vol. ii , pp. 410-412 ; the Duke of Argyll , The Reign of Law , New York , pp. 16 , 18 , 31 , 116 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ D. D. , LL.D. , Man in Genesis and Geology , New York , 1870 , pp. 48 , 49 , 82 ; Canon H. P. Liddon , Sermons preached before the University of Oxford , 1871 , Sermon III ; St. George Mivart , Evolution and its Consequences , Contemporary Review , Jan. 1872 ; British and Foreign Evangelical Review , 1872 , article on The Theory of Evolution ; The Lutheran Quarterly , Gettysburg , Pa. , April , 1872 , article by Rev. Cyrus Thomas , Assistant United States Geological Survey on The Descent of Man , pp. 214 , 239 , 372-376 ; The Lutheran Quarterly , July , 1873 , article on Some Assumptions against Christianity , by Rev. C. A. Stork , Baltimore , Md. , pp. 325 , 326 ; also , in the same number , see a review of Dr. Burr 's Pater Mundi , pp. 474 , 475 , and contrast with the review in the Andover Review of that period ; an article in the Religious Magazine and Monthly Review , Boston , on Religion and Evolution , by Rev. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; The Popular Science Monthly , January , 1874 , article Genesis , Geology , and Evolution ; article by Asa Gray , Nature , London , June 4 , 1874 ; Materialism , by Rev. W. Streissguth , Lutheran Quarterly , July , 1875 , originally written in German , and translated by J. G. Morris , D. D. , pp. 406 , 408 ; Darwinismus und Christenthum , von R. Steck , Ref . Pfarrer in Dresden , Berlin , 1875 , pp. 5,6 , and 26 , reprinted from the Protestantische Kirchenzeitung , and issued as a tract by the Protestantenverein ; Rev. W. E. Adams , article in the Lutheran Quarterly , April , 1879 , on Evolution : Shall it be Atheistic ? John Wood , Bible Anticipations of Modern Science , 1880 , pp. 18 , 19 , 22 ; Lutheran Quarterly , January , 1881 , Some Postulates of the New Ethics , by Rev. C. A. Stork , D. D. ; Lutheran Quarterly , January , 1882 , The Religion of Evolution as against the Religion of Jesus , by Prof. W. H. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ republished as a pamphlet ; Canon Liddon , prefatory note to sermon on The Recovery of St. Thomas , pp. 4 , 11 , 12 , 13 , and 26 , preached in St. Paul 's Cathedral , April 23 , 1882 ; Lutheran Quarterly , January 1882 , Evolution and the Scripture , by Rev. John A. Earnest , pp. 101 , 105 ; Glimpses in the Twilight , by Rev. F. G. Lee , D. D. , Edinburgh , 1885 , especially pp. 18 and 19 ; the Hibbert Lectures for 1883 , by Rev. Charles Beard , pp. 392 , 393 , et seq. ; F. W. Farrar , D. D. , Canon of Westminster , The History of Interpretation , being the Bampton Lectures for 1885 , pp. 426 , 427 ; Bishop Temple , Bampton Lectures , pp. 184-186 ; article Evolution in the Dictionary of Religion , edited by Rev. William Benham , 1887 ; Prof. Huxley , An Episcopal Trilogy , Nineteenth Century , November , 1887  --  this article discusses three sermons delivered by the bishops of Carlisle , Bedford , and Manchester @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ British Association , September , 1887  --  these sermons were afterward published in pamphlet form under the title The Advance of Science ; John Fiske , Darwinism , and Other Essays , Boston , 1888 ; Harriet Mackenzie , Evolution illuminating the Bible , London , 1891 , dedicated to Prof. Huxley ; H. E. Rye , Hulsean Professor of Divinity at Cambridge , The Early Narratives of Genesis , London , 1892 , preface , pp. vii-ix , pp. 7 , 9 , 11 ; Rev. G. M. Searle , of the Catholic University , Washington , article in the Catholic World , November , 1892 , pp. 223 , 227 , 229 , 231 ; for the statement from Keble College , see Rev. Mr. Illingworth , in Lux Mundi . For Bishop Temple , see citation in Laing . For a complete and admirable acceptance of the evolutionary theory as lifting Christian doctrine and practice to a higher plane , with suggestions for a new theology , see two Sermons by Archdeacon Wilson , of Manchester , S. P. C. K .. London , and Young &; Co. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lucid statement of the most recent development of evolution doctrines , and the relations of Spencer , Weismann , Galton , and others to them , see Lester F. Ward 's Address as President of the Biological Society , Washington , 1891 ; also , recent articles in the leading English reviews . For a brilliant glorification of evolution by natural selection as a doctrine necessary to thenhighest and truest view of Christianity , see Prof. Drummond 's Chautaqua Lectures , published in the British Weekly , London , from April 20 to May 11 , 1893 . CHAPTER II . GEOGRAPHY . I. THE FORM OF THE EARTH . Among various rude tribes we find survivals of a primitive idea that the earth is a flat table or disk , ceiled , domed , or canopied by the sky , and that the sky rests upon the mountains as pillars . Such a belief is entirely natural ; it conforms to the appearance of things , and hence at a very early period entered into various theologies . In the civilizations of Chaldea and Egypt it was very fully developed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the god Marduk as in the beginning creating the heavens and the earth : the earth rests upon the waters ; within it is the realm of the dead ; above it is spread " the firmament "  --  a solid dome coming down to the horizon on all sides and resting upon foundations laid in the " great waters " which extend around the earth . On the east and west sides of this domed firmament are doors , through which the sun enters in the morning and departs at night ; above it extends another ocean , which goes down to the ocean surrounding the earth at the horizon on all sides , and which is supported and kept away from the earth by the firmament . Above the firmament and the upper ocean which it supports is the interior of heaven . The Egyptians considered the earth as a table , flat and oblong , the sky being its ceiling  --  a huge " firmament " of metal . At the four corners of the earth were the pillars supporting this firmament , and on this solid sky @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ believed that , when chaos was taking form , one of the gods by main force raised the waters on high and spread them out over the firmament ; that on the under side of this solid vault , or ceiling , or firmament , the stars were suspended to light the earth , and that the rains were caused by the letting down of the waters through its windows . This idea and others connected with it seem to have taken strong hold of the Egyptian priestly caste , entering into their theology and sacred science : ceilings of great temples , with stars , constellations , planets , and signs of the zodiac figured upon them , remain to-day as striking evidences of this . In Persia we have theories of geography based upon similar conceptions and embalmed in sacred texts . From these and doubtless from earlier sources common to them all came geographical legacies to the Hebrews . Various passages in their sacred books , many of them noble in conception and beautiful in form , regarding " the foundation of the earth upon the waters , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " the compass upon the face of the depth , " the " firmament , " the " corners of the earth , " the " pillars of heaven , " the " waters above the firmament , " the " windows of heaven , " and " doors of heaven , " point us back to both these ancient springs of thought. 25 25 For survivals of the early idea , among the Eskimos , of the sky as supported by mountains , and , among sundry Pacific islanders , of the sky as a firmament or vault of stone , see Tylor , Early History of Mankind , second edition , London , 1870 , chap . xi ; Spencer , Sociology , vol. i , chap vii , also Andrew Lang , La Mythologie , Paris , 1886 , pp. 68-73 . For the Babylonian theories , see George Smith 's Chaldean Genesis , and especially the German translation by Delitzsch , Leipsic , 1876 ; also , Jensen , Die Kosmogonien der Babylonier , Strasburg , 1890 ; see especially in the appendices , pp. 9 and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ closely followed in the Hebrew book Genesis . See also Lukas , Die Grundbegriffe in den Kosmogonien der alten Volker , Leipsic , 1893 , for a most thorough summing up of the whole subject , with texts showing the development of Hebrew out of Chaldean and Egyptian conceptions , pp. 44 , etc. ; also pp. 127 et seq . For the early view in India and Persia , see citations from the Vedas and the Zend-Avesta in Lethaby , Architecture , Mysticism , and Myth , chap . i . For the Egyptian view , see Champollion ; also Lenormant , Histoire Ancienne , Maspero , and others . As to the figures of the heavens upon the ceilings of Egyptian temples , see Maspero , Archeologie Egyptienne , Paris , 1890 ; and for engravings of them , see Lepsius , Denkmaler , vol. i , Bl . 41 , and vol. ix , Abth. iv , Bl . 35 ; also the Description de l'Egypte , published by order of Napoleon , tome ii , Pl. 14 ; also Prisse d'Avennes , Art Egyptien , Atlas , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ survival at the Temple of Denderah , see Denon , Voyage en Egypte , Planches 129 , 130 . For the Egyptian idea of " pillars of heaven , " as alluded to on the stele of victory of Thotmes III , 1877 . For a similar Babylonian belief , see Sayce 's Herodotus , Appendix , p. 403 . For the belief of Hebrew scriptural writers in a solid " firmament , " see especially Job , xxxviii , 18 ; also Smith 's Bible Dictionary . For engravings showing the earth and heaven above it as conceived by Egyptians and Chaldeans , with " pillars of heaven " and " firmament , " see Maspero and Sayce , Dawn of Civilization , London , 1894 , pp. 17 and 543 . But , as civilization was developed , there were evolved , especially among the Greeks , ideas of the earth 's sphericity . The Pythagoreans , Plato , and Aristotle especially cherished them . These ideas were vague , they were mixed with absurdities , but they were germ ideas , and even amid the luxuriant growth of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into life in the minds of a few thinking men , and these men renewed the suggestion that the earth is a globe. 26 26 The agency of the Pythagoreans in first spreading the doctrine of the earth 's sphericity is generally acknowledged , but the first full and clear utterance of it to the world was by Aristotle . Very fruitful , too , was the statement of the new theory given by Plato in the Timaeus ; see Jowett 's translation , 62 , c . Also the Phaedo , pp.449 et seq . See also Grote on Plato 's doctrine on the sphericity of the earth ; also Sir G. C. Lewis 's Astronomy of the Ancients , London , 1862 , chap . iii , section i , and note . Cicero 's mention of the antipodes , and his reference to the passage in the Timaeus , are even more remarkable than the latter , in that they much more clearly foreshadow the modern doctrine . See his Academic Questions , ii ; also Tusc . Quest. , i and v , 24 . For a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sphericity of the earth , see Kretschmer , Die physische Erkunde im christlichen Mittelalter , Wien , 1889 , pp. 35 et seq. ; also Eiken , Geschichte der mittelalterlichen Weltanschauung , Stuttgart , 1887 , Dritter Theil , chap . vi . For citations and summaries , see Whewell , Hist . Induct . Sciences , vol. i , p. 189 , and St. Martin , Hist. de la Geog. , Paris , 1873 , p. 96 ; also Leopardi , Saggio sopra gli errori popolari degli antichi , Firenze , 1851 , chap . xii , pp. 184 et seq . A few of the larger-minded fathers of the Church , influenced possibly by Pythagorean traditions , but certainly by Aristotle and Plato , were willing to accept this view , but the majority of them took fright at once . To them it seemed fraught with dangers to Scripture , by which , of course , they meant their interpretation of Scripture . Among the first who took up arms against it was Eusebius . In view of the New Testament texts indicating the immediately approaching , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this idea by bringing scientific studies into contempt . Speaking of investigators , he said , " It is not through ignorance of the things admired by them , but through contempt of their useless labour , that we think little of these matters , turning our souls to better things . " Basil of Caesarea declared it " a matter of no interest to us whether the earth is a sphere or a cylinder or a disk , or concave in the middle like a fan . " Lactantius referred to the ideas of those studying astronomy as " bad and senseless , " and opposed the doctrine of the earth 's sphericity both from Scripture and reason . St. John Chrysostom also exerted his influence against this scientific belief ; and Ephraem Syrus , the greatest man of the old Syrian Church , widely known as the " lute of the Holy Ghost , " opposed it no less earnestly . But the strictly biblical men of science , such eminent fathers and bishops as Theophilus of Antioch in the second century , and Clement of Alexandria in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ content with merely opposing what they stigmatized as an old heathen theory ; they drew from their Bibles a new Christian theory , to which one Church authority added one idea and another , until it was fully developed . Taking the survival of various early traditions , given in the seventh verse of the first chapter of Genesis , they insisted on the clear declarations of Scripture that the earth was , at creation , arched over with a solid vault , " a firmament , " and to this they added the passages from Isaiah and the Psalms , in which it declared that the heavens are stretched out " like a curtain , " and again " like a tent to dwell in . " The universe , then , is like a house : the earth is its ground floor , the firmament its ceiling , under which the Almighty hangs out the sun to rule the day and the moon and stars to rule the night . This ceiling is also the floor of the apartment above , and in this is a cistern , shaped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a bathing-tank , " and containing " the waters which are above the firmament . " These waters are let down upon the earth by the Almighty and his angels through the " windows of heaven . " As to the movement of the sun , there was a citation of various passages in Genesis , mixed with metaphysics in various proportions , and this was thought to give ample proofs from the Bible that the earth could not be a sphere. 27 27 For Eusebius , see the Proep . Ev. , xv , 61 . For Basil , see the Hexaemeron , Hom. ix . For Lactantius , see his Inst . Div. , lib. iii , cap . 3 ; also citations in Whewell , Hist . Induct . Sciences , London , 1857 , vol. i , p. 194 , and in St. Martin , Histoire de la Geographie , pp. 216 , 217 . For the views of St. John Chrysostom , Ephraem Syrus , and other great churchmen , see Kretschmer as above , chap i . In the sixth century this development culminated in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the universe , claiming to be based upon Scripture , its author being the Egyptian monk Cosmas Indicopleustes . Egypt was a great treasure-house of theologic thought to various religions of antiquity , and Cosmas appears to have urged upon the early Church this Egyptian idea of the construction of the world , just as another Egyptian ecclesiastic , Athanasius , urged upon the Church the Egyptian idea of a triune deity ruling the world . According to Cosmas , the earth is a parallelogram , flat , and surrounded by four seas . It is four hundred days ' journey long and two hundred broad . At the outer edges of these four seas arise massive walls closing in the whole structure and supporting the firmament or vault of the heavens , whose edges are cemented to the walls . These walls inclose the earth and all the heavenly bodies . The whole of this theologico-scientific structure was built most carefully and , as was then thought , most scripturally . Starting with the expression applied in the ninth chapter of Hebrews to the tabernacle in the desert , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that it gives the key to the whole construction of the world . The universe is , therefore , made on the plan of the Jewish tabernacle  --  boxlike and oblong . Going into details , he quotes the sublime words of Isaiah : " It is He that sitteth upon the circle of the earth ; ... that stretcheth out the heavens like a curtain , and spreadeth them out like a tent to dwell in " ; and the passage in Job which speaks of the " pillars of heaven . " He works all this into his system , and reveals , as he thinks , treasures of science . This vast box is divided into two compartments , one above the other . In the first of these , men live and stars move ; and it extends up to the first solid vault , or firmament , above which live the angels , a main part of whose business it is to push and pull the sun and planets to and fro . Next , he takes the text , " Let there be a firmament @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ divide the waters from the waters , " and other texts from Genesis ; to these he adds the text from the Psalms , " Praise him , ye heaven of heavens , and ye waters that be above the heavens " then casts all , and these growths of thought into his crucible together , finally brings out the theory that over this first vault is a vast cistern containing " the waters . " He then takes the expression in Genesis regarding the " windows of heaven " and establishes a doctrine regarding the regulation of the rain , to the effect that the angels not only push and pull the heavenly bodies to light the earth , but also open and close the heavenly windows to water it . To understand the surface of the earth , Cosmas , following the methods of interpretation which Origen and other early fathers of the Church had established , studies the table of shew-bread in the Jewish tabernacle . The surface of this table proves to him that the earth is flat , and its dimensions prove that the earth is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the four seasons ; the twelve loaves of bread , the twelve months ; the hollow about the table proves that the ocean surrounds the earth . To account for the movement of the sun , Cosmas suggests that at the north of the earth is a great mountain , and that at night the sun is carried behind this ; but some of the commentators ventured to express a doubt here : they thought that the sun was pushed into a pit at night and pulled out in the morning . Nothing can be more touching in its simplicity than Cosmas 's summing up of his great argument , He declares , " We say therefore with Isaiah that the heaven embracing the universe is a vault , with Job that it is joined to the earth , and with Moses that the length of the earth is greater than its breadth . " The treatise closes with rapturous assertions that not only Moses and the prophets , but also angels and apostles , agree to the truth of his doctrine , and that at the last day God will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ theory was drawn from Scripture , it was also , as we have seen , the result of an evolution of theological thought begun long before the scriptural texts on which it rested were written . It was not at all strange that Cosmas , Egyptian as he was , should have received this old Nile-born doctrine , as we see it indicated to-day in the structure of Egyptian temples , and that he should have developed it by the aid of the Jewish Scriptures ; but the theological world knew nothing of this more remote evolution from pagan germs ; it was received as virtually inspired , and was soon regarded as a fortress of scriptural truth . Some of the foremost men in the Church devoted themselves to buttressing it with new texts and throwing about it new outworks of theological reasoning ; the great body of the faithful considered it a direct gift from the Almighty . Even in the later centuries of the Middle Ages John of San Geminiano made a desperate attempt to save it . Like Cosmas , he takes the Jewish tabernacle as his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be reconciled with the biblical accounts of its shape , dimensions , and furniture. 28 28 For a notice of the views of Cosmas in connection with those of Lactantius , Augustine , St. John Chrysostom , and others , see Schoell , Histoire de la Litterature Grecque , vol. vii , p. 37 . The main scriptural passages referred to are as follows : ( 1 ) Isaiah xi , 22 ; ( 2 ) Genesis i , 6 ; ( 3 ) Genesis vii , 11 ; ( 4 ) Exodus xxiv , 10 ; ( 5 ) Job xxvi , 11 , and xxxvii , 18 ( 6 ) Psalm cxlviii , 4 , and civ , 9 ; ( 7 ) Ezekiel i , 22-26 . For Cosmas 's theory , see Montfaucon , Collectio Nova Patrum , Paris , 1706 , vol. ii , p.188 ; also pp. 298 , 299 . The text is illustrated with engravings showing walls and solid vault ( firmament ) , with the whole apparatus of " fountains of the great deep , " " windows of heaven , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drawn . For reduction of one of them , see Peschel , Gesschichte der Erdkunds , p. 98 ; also article Maps , in Knight 's Dictionary of Mechanics , New York , 1875 . For curious drawings showing Cosmas 's scheme in a different way from that given by Montfaucon , see extracts from a Vatican codex of the ninth century in Garucci , Storia de l'Arte Christiana , vol. iii , pp. 70 et seq . For a good discussion of Cosmas 's ideas , see Santarem , Hist. de la Cosmographie , vol. ii , pp. 8 et seq. , and for a very thorough discussion of its details , Kretschmer , as above . For still another theory , very droll , and thought out on similar principles , see Mungo Park , cited in De Morgan , Paradoxes , p. 309 . For Cosmas 's joyful summing up , see Montfaucon , Collectio Nova Patrum , vol. ii , p. 255 . For the curious survival in the thirteenth century of the old idea of the " waters above the heavens , " see the story @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people coming out of church in England found an anchor let down by a rope out of the heavens , how there came voices from sailors above trying to loose the anchor , and , finally , how a sailor came down the rope , who , on reaching the earth , died as if drowned in water . See Gervase of Tilbury , Otia Imperialia , edit . Liebrecht , Hanover , 1856 , Prima Decisio , cap . xiii . The work was written about 1211 . For John of San Germiniano , see his Summa de Exemplis , lib. ix , cap . 43 . For the Egyptian Trinitarian views , see Sharpe , History of Egypt , vol. i , pp. 94 , 102 . From this old conception of the universe as a sort of house , with heaven as its upper story and the earth as its ground floor , flowed important theological ideas into heathen , Jewish , and Christian mythologies . Common to them all are legends regarding attempts of mortals to invade the upper apartment from the lower . Of such are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reach heaven by piling up mountains , and were cast down ; the Chaldean and Hebrew legends of the wicked who at Babel sought to build " a tower whose top may reach heaven , " which Jehovah went down from heaven to see , and which he brought to naught by the " confusion of tongues " ; the Hindu legend of the tree which sought to grow into heaven and which Brahma blasted ; and the Mexican legend of the giants who sought to reach heaven by building the Pyramid of Cholula , and who were overthrown by fire from above . Myths having this geographical idea as their germ developed in luxuriance through thousands of years . Ascensions to heaven and descents from it , " translations , " " assumptions , " " annunciations , " mortals " caught up " into it and returning , angels flying between it and the earth , thunderbolts hurled down from it , mighty winds issuing from its corners , voices speaking from the upper floor to men on the lower , temporary openings of the floor of heaven to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wonders " hung out from it to warn the wicked , interventions of every kind  --  from the heathen gods coming down on every sort of errand , and Jehovah coming down to walk in Eden in the cool of the day , to St. Mark swooping down into the market-place of Venice to break the shackles of a slave  --  all these are but features in a vast evolution of myths arising largely from this geographical germ . Nor did this evolution end here . Naturally , in this view of things , if heaven was a loft , hell was a cellar ; and if there were ascensions into one , there were descents into the other . Hell being so near , interferences by its occupants with the dwellers of the earth just above were constant , and form a vast chapter in medieval literature . Dante made this conception of the location of hell still more vivid , and we find some forms of it serious barriers to geographical investigation . Many a bold navigator , who was quite ready to brave pirates and tempests , trembled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the openings into hell which a widespread belief placed in the Atlantic at some unknown distance from Europe . This terror among sailors was one of the main obstacles in the great voyage of Columbus . In a medieval text-book , giving science the form of a dialogue , occur the following question and answer : " Why is the sun so red in the evening ? " " Because he looketh down upon hell . " But the ancient germ of scientific truth in geography  --  the idea of the earth 's sphericity  --  still lived . Although the great majority of the early fathers of the Church , and especially Lactantius , had sought to crush it beneath the utterances attributed to Isaiah , David , and St. Paul , the better opinion of Eudoxus and Aristotle could not be forgotten . Clement of Alexandria and Origen had even supported it . Ambrose and Augustine had tolerated it , and , after Cosmas had held sway a hundred years , it received new life from a great churchman of southern Europe , Isidore of Seville , who , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , braved it in this . In the eighth century a similar declaration was made in the north of Europe by another great Church authority , Bede . Against the new life thus given to the old truth , the sacred theory struggled long and vigorously but in vain . Eminent authorities in later ages , like Albert the Great , St. Thomas Aquinas , Dante , and Vincent of Beauvais , felt obliged to accept the doctrine of the earth 's sphericity , and as we approach the modern period we find its truth acknowledged by the vast majority of thinking men . The Reformation did not at first yield fully to this better theory . Luther , Melanchthon , and Calvin were very strict in their adherence to the exact letter of Scripture . Even Zwingli , broad as his views generally were , was closely bound down in this matter , and held to the opinion of the fathers that a great firmament , or floor , separated the heavens from the earth ; that above it were the waters and angels , and below it the earth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on this general subject among the Reformers was in a few minor speculations regarding the universe which encompassed Eden , the exact character of the conversation of the serpent with Eve , and the like . In the times immediately following the Reformation matters were even worse . The interpretations of Scripture by Luther and Calvin became as sacred to their followers as the Scripture itself . When Calixt ventured , in interpreting the Psalms , to question the accepted belief that " the waters above the heavens " were contained in a vast receptacle upheld by a solid vault , he was bitterly denounced as heretical . In the latter part of the sixteenth century Musaeus interpreted the accounts in Genesis to mean that first God made the heavens for the roof or vault , and left it there on high swinging until three days later he put the earth under it . But the new scientific thought as to the earth 's form had gained the day . The most sturdy believers were obliged to adjust their , biblical theories to it as best they could. 29 29 For @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , see Santarem , Cosmographie , vol i , pp. 22-24 . For the gradual acceptance of the idea of the earth 's sphericity after the eighth century , see Kretschmer , pp. 51 et seq. , where citations from a multitude of authors are given . For the views of the Reformers , see Zockler , vol. i , pp. 679 and 693 . For Calixt , Musaeus , and others , ibid. , pp. 673-677 and 761 . II . THE DELINEATION OF THE EARTH . Every great people of antiquity , as a rule , regarded its own central city or most holy place as necessarily the centre of the earth . The Chaldeans held that their " holy house of the gods " was the centre . The Egyptians sketched the world under the form of a human figure , in which Egypt was the heart , and the centre of it Thebes . For the Assyrians , it was Babylon ; for the Hindus , it was Mount Meru ; for the Greeks , so far as the civilized world was concerned , Olympus or the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is Mecca and its sacred stone ; the Chinese , to this day , speak of their empire as the " middle kingdom . " It was in accordance , then , with a simple tendency of human thought that the Jews believed the centre of the world to be Jerusalem . The book of Ezekiel speaks of Jerusalem as in the middle of the earth , and all other parts of the world as set around the holy city . Throughout the " ages of faith " this was very generally accepted as a direct revelation from the Almighty regarding the earth 's form . St. Jerome , the greatest authority of the early Church upon the Bible , declared , on the strength of this utterance of the prophet , that Jerusalem could be nowhere but at the earth 's centre ; in the ninth century Archbishop Rabanus Maurus reiterated the same argument ; in the eleventh century Hugh of St. Victor gave to the doctrine another scriptural demonstration ; and Pope Urban , in his great sermon at Clermont urging the Franks to the crusade , declared , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; in the thirteenth century an ecclesiastical writer much in vogue , the monk Caesarius of Heisterbach , declared , " As the heart in the midst of the body , so is Jerusalem situated in the midst of our inhabited earth , "  --  " so it was that Christ was crucified at the centre of the earth . " Dante accepted this view of Jerusalem as a certainty , wedding it to immortal verse ; and in the pious book of travels ascribed to Sir John Mandeville , so widely read in the Middle Ages , it is declared that Jerusalem is at the centre of the world , and that a spear standing erect at the Holy Sepulchre casts no shadow at the equinox . Ezekiel 's statement thus became the standard of orthodoxy to early map-makers . The map of the world at Hereford Cathedral , the maps of Andrea Bianco , Marino Sanuto , and a multitude of others fixed this view in men 's minds , and doubtless discouraged during many generations any scientific statements tending to unbalance this geographical centre revealed in Scripture. 30 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ earth 's center was in their most sacred place , see citations from Maspero , Charton , Sayce , and others in Lethaby , Architecture , Mysticism , and Myth , chap . iv . As to the Greeks , we have typical statements in the Eumenides of Aeschylus , where the stone in the altar at Delphi is repeatedly called " the earth 's navel "  --  which is precisely the expression used regarding Jerusalem in the Septuagint translation of Ezekiel ( see below ) . The proof texts on which the mediaeval geographers mainly relied as to the form of the earth were Ezekiel v , 5 , and xxxviii , 12 . The progress of geographical knowledge evidently caused them to be softened down somewhat in our King James 's version ; but the first of them reads , in the Vulgate , " Ista est Hierusalem , in medio gentium posui eam et in circuitu ejus terrae " ; and the second reads , in the Vulgate , " in medio terrae , " and in the Septuagint , <Greek> . That the literal centre of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Commentat. in Ezekiel , lib. ii ; and for general proof , see Leopardi , Saggio sopra gli errori popolari degli antichi , pp. 207 , 208 . For Rabanus Maurus , see his De Universo , lib. xii , cap . 4 , in Migne , tome cxi , p. 339 . For Hugh of St. Victor , se his De Situ Terrarum , cap . ii . For Dante 's belief , see Inferno , canto xxxiv , 112-115 : " E se ' or sotto l'emisperio giunto , Ch ' e opposito a quel che la gran secca Coverchia , e sotto il cui colmo consunto Fu l'uom che nacque e visse senza pecca . " For orthodox geography in the Middle Ages , see Wright 's Essays on Archaeology , vol. ii , chapter on the map of the world in Hereford Cathedral ; also the rude maps in Cardinal d'Ailly 's Ymago Mundi ; also copies of maps of Marino Sanuto and others in Peschel , Erdkunde , p. 210 ; also Munster , Fac Simile dell ' Atlante di Andrea Bianco , Venezia , 1869 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Satarem , vol. ii , p. 295 , vol. iii , pp. 71 , 183 , 184 , and elsewhere . For a brief summary with citations , see Eiken , Geschichte , etc. , pp. 622 , 623 . Nor did medieval thinkers rest with this conception . In accordance with the dominant view that physical truth must be sought by theological reasoning , the doctrine was evolved that not only the site of the cross on Calvary marked the geographical centre of the world , but that on this very spot had stood the tree which bore the forbidden fruit in Eden . Thus was geography made to reconcile all parts of the great theologic plan . This doctrine was hailed with joy by multitudes ; and we find in the works of medieval pilgrims to Palestine , again and again , evidence that this had become precious truth to them , both in theology and geography . Even as late as 1664 the eminent French priest Eugene Roger , in his published travels in Palestine , dwelt upon the thirty-eighth chapter of Ezekiel , coupled with a text @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the earth is a spot marked on the pavement of the Church of the Holy Sepulchre , and that on this spot once stood the tree which bore the forbidden fruit and the cross of Christ. 31 31 For the site of the cross on Calvary , as the point where stood " the tree of the knowledge of good and evil " in Eden , at the centre of the earth , see various Eastern travellers cited in Tobler ; but especially the travels of Bishop Arculf in the Holy Land , in Wright 's Early Travels in Palestine , p. 8 ; also Travels of Saewulf , ibid , p. 38 ; also Sir John Mandeville , ibid. , pp. 166 , 167 . For Roger , see his La Terre Saincte , Paris , 1664 , pp. 89-217 , etc. ; see also Quaresmio , Terrae Sanctae Elucidatio , 1639 , for similar view ; and , for one narrative in which the idea was developed into an amazing mass of pious myths , see Pilgrimage of the Russian Abbot Daniel , edited by Sir C. W. Wilson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passage deserves to be quoted as an example of myth-making ; it is as follows : " At the time of our Lord 's crucifixion , when he gave up the ghost on the cross , the veil of the temple was rent , and the rock above Adam 's skull opened , and the blood and water which flowed from Christ 's side ran down through the fissure upon the skull , thus washing away the sins of men . " ) Nor was this the only misconception which forced its way from our sacred writings into medieval map-making : two others were almost as marked . First of these was the vague terror inspired by Gog and Magog . Few passages in the Old Testament are more sublime than the denunciation of these great enemies by Ezekiel ; and the well-known statement in the Apocalypse fastened the Hebrew feeling regarding them with a new meaning into the mind of the early Church : hence it was that the medieval map-makers took great pains to delineate these monsters and their habitations on the maps . For centuries no map was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conception was derived from the mention in our sacred books of the " four winds . " Hence came a vivid belief in their real existence , and their delineation on the maps , generally as colossal heads with distended cheeks , blowing vigorously toward Jerusalem . After these conceptions had mainly disappeared we find here and there evidences of the difficulty men found in giving up the scriptural idea of direct personal interference by agents of Heaven in the ordinary phenomena of Nature : thus , in a noted map of the sixteenth century representing the earth as a sphere , there is at each pole a crank , with an angel laboriously turning the earth by means of it ; and , in another map , the hand of the Almighty , thrust forth from the clouds , holds the earth suspended by a rope and spins it with his thumb and fingers . Even as late as the middle of the seventeenth century Heylin , the most authoritative English geographer of the time , shows a like tendency to mix science and theology . He warps each to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ making but one globe with the earth , is yet higher than it . This appears , first , because it is a body not so heavy ; secondly , it is observed by sailors that their ships move faster to the shore than from it , whereof no reason can be given but the height of the water above the land ; thirdly , to such as stand on the shore the sea seems to swell into the form of a round hill till it puts a bound upon our sight . Now that the sea , hovering thus over and above the earth , doth not overwhelm it , can be ascribed only to his Providence who hath made the waters to stand on an heap that they turn not again to cover the earth . ' " 32 32 For Gog and Magog , see Ezekiel xxxviii and xxxix , and Rev. xx , 8 ; and for the general subject , Toy , Judaism and Christianity , Boston , 1891 , pp. 373 , 374 . For maps showing these two great terrors , and for geographical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Age , Bruxelles , 1850 , Atlas ; also Ruge , Gesch. des Zeitalters der Entdeckungen , Berlin , 1881 , pp. 78 , 79 ; also Peschel 's Abhandlungen , pp.28-35 , and Gesch. der Erdkunde , p. 210 . For representations on maps of the " Four Winds , " see Charton , Voyageurs , tome ii , p. 11 ; also Ruge , as above , pp. 324 , 325 ; also for a curious mixture of the scriptural winds issuing from the bags of Aeolus , see a map of the twelfth century in Leon Gautier , La Chevalerie , p. 153 ; and for maps showing additional winds , see various editions of Ptolemy . For a map with angels turning the earth by means of cranks at the poles , see Grynaeus , Novus Orbis , Basileae , 1537 . For the globe kept spinning by the Almighty , see J. Hondius 's map , 1589 ; and for Heylin , his first folio , 1652 , p. 27 . III . THE INHABITANTS OF THE EARTH . Even while the doctrine of the sphericity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suggested which theologians finally came to consider of far greater importance . The doctrine of the sphericity of the earth naturally led to thought regarding its inhabitants , and another ancient germ was warmed into life  --  the idea of antipodes : of human beings on the earth 's opposite sides . In the Greek and Roman world this idea had found supporters and opponents , Cicero and Pliny being among the former , and Epicurus , Lucretius , and Plutarch among the latter . Thus the problem came into the early Church unsolved . Among the first churchmen to take it up was , in the East , St. Gregory Nazianzen , who showed that to sail beyond Gibraltar was impossible ; and , in the West , Lactantius , who asked : " Is there any one so senseless as to believe that there are men whose footsteps are higher than their heads ? . . . that the crops and trees grow downward ? . . . that the rains and snow and hail fall upward toward the earth ? . . . I am at a loss @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ once erred , steadily persevere in their folly and defend one vain thing by another . " In all this contention by Gregory and Lactantius there was nothing to be especially regretted , for , whatever their motive , they simply supported their inherited belief on grounds of natural law and probability . Unfortunately , the discussion was not long allowed to rest on these scientific and philosophical grounds ; other Christian thinkers followed , who in their ardour adduced texts of Scripture , and soon the question had become theological ; hostility to the belief in antipodes became dogmatic . The universal Church was arrayed against it , and in front of the vast phalanx stood , to a man , the fathers . To all of them this idea seemed dangerous ; to most of them it seemed damnable . St. Basil and St. Ambrose were tolerant enough to allow that a man might be saved who thought the earth inhabited on its opposite sides ; but the great majority of the fathers doubted the possibility of salvation to such misbelievers . The great champion of the orthodox view @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a little in regard to the sphericity of the earth , he fought the idea that men exist on the other side of it , saying that " Scripture speaks of no such descendants of Adam , " he insists that men could not be allowed by the Almighty to live there , since if they did they could not see Christ at His second coming descending through the air . But his most cogent appeal , one which we find echoed from theologian to theologian during a thousand years afterward , is to the nineteenth Psalm , and to its confirmation in the Epistle to the Romans ; to the words , " Their line is gone out through all the earth , and their words to the end of the world . " He dwells with great force on the fact that St. Paul based one of his most powerful arguments upon this declaration regarding the preachers of the gospel , and that he declared even more explicitly that " Verily , their sound went into all the earth , and their words unto the ends of the world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as those preachers did not go to the antipodes , no antipodes can exist ; and hence that the supporters of this geographical doctrine " give the lie direct to King David and to St. Paul , and therefore to the Holy Ghost . " Thus the great Bishop of Hippo taught the whole world for over a thousand years that , as there was no preaching of the gospel on the opposite side of the earth , there could be no human beings there . The great authority of Augustine , and the cogency of his scriptural argument , held the Church firmly against the doctrine of the antipodes ; all schools of interpretation were now agreed  --  the followers of the allegorical tendencies of Alexandria , the strictly literal exegetes of Syria , the more eclectic theologians of the West . For over a thousand years it was held in the Church , " always , everywhere , and by all , " that there could not be human beings on the opposite sides of the earth , even if the earth had opposite sides ; and , when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , from the fourth century to the fifteenth , simply used that opiate which had so soothing an effect on John Henry Newman in the nineteenth century  --  securus judicat orbis terrarum . Yet gainsayers still appeared . That the doctrine of the antipodes continued to have life , is shown by the fact that in the sixth century Procopius of Gaza attacks it with a tremendous argument . He declares that , if there be men on the other side of the earth , Christ must have gone there and suffered a second time to save them ; and , therefore , that there must have been there , as necessary preliminaries to his coming , a duplicate Eden , Adam , serpent , and deluge . Cosmas Indicopleustes also attacked the doctrine with especial bitterness , citing a passage from St. Luke to prove that antipodes are theologically impossible . At the end of the sixth century came a man from whom much might be expected  --  St. Isidore of Seville . He had pondered over ancient thought in science , and , as we have seen , had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; but with that he stopped . As to the antipodes , the authority of the Psalmist , St. Paul , and St. Augustine silences him ; he shuns the whole question as unlawful , subjects reason to faith , and declares that men can not and ought not to exist on opposite sides of the earth. 33 33For the opinions of Basil , Ambrose , and others , see Lecky , History of Rationalism in Europe , New York , 1872 , vol. i , p. 279 . Also Letronne , in Revue des Deux Mondes , March , 1834 . For Lactantius , see citations already given . For St. Augustine 's opinion , see the De Civitate Dei , xvi , 9 , where this great father of the church shows that the antipodes " nulla ratione credendum est . " For the unanimity of the fathers against the antipodes , see Zockler , vol. 1 , p. 127 . For a very naive summary , see Joseph Acosta , Natural and Moral History of the Indies , Grimston 's translation , republished by the Hakluyt Soc. , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's Posthumous Works , vol. ii , p. 645 . For Procopius of Gaza , see Kretschmer , p. 55 . See also , on the general subject , Peschel , Geschichte der Erdkunde , pp. 96-97 . For Isidore , see citations already given . To understand the embarrassment caused by these utterances of the fathers to scientific men of a later period , see letter of Agricola to Joachim Vadianus in 1514 . Agricola asks Vadianus to give his views regarding the antipodes , saying that he himself does not know what to do , between the fathers on the one side and the learned men of modern times on the other . On the other hand , for the embarrassment caused to the Church by this mistaken zeal of the fathers , see Kepler 's references and Fromund 's replies ; also De Morgan , Paradoxes , p. 58 . Kepler appears to have taken great delight in throwing the views of Lactantius into the teeth of his adversaries . Under such pressure this scientific truth seems to have disappeared for nearly two hundred years ; but by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be generally accepted among the leaders of thought , and now the doctrine of the antipodes was again asserted by a bishop , Virgil of Salzburg . There then stood in Germany , in those first years of the eighth century , one of the greatest and noblest of men  --  St. Boniface . His learning was of the best then known . In labours he was a worthy successor of the apostles ; his genius for Christian work made him unwillingly primate of Germany ; his devotion to duty led him willingly to martyrdom . There sat , too , at that time , on the papal throne a great Christian statesman  --  Pope Zachary . Boniface immediately declared against the revival of such a heresy as the doctrine of the antipodes ; he stigmatized it as an assertion that there are men beyond the reach of the appointed means of salvation ; he attacked Virgil , and called on Pope Zachary for aid . The Pope , as the infallible teacher of Christendom , made a strong response . He cited passages from the book of Job and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; he declared it " perverse , iniquitous , and against Virgil 's own soul , " and indicated a purpose of driving him from his bishopric . Whether this purpose was carried out or not , the old theological view , by virtue of the Pope 's divinely ordered and protected " inerrancy , " was re-established , and the doctrine that the earth has inhabitants on but one of its sides became more than ever orthodox , and precious in the mind of the Church. 34 34 For Virgil of Salzburg , see Neander 's History of the Christian Church , Torrey 's translation , vol. iii , p. 63 ; also Herzog , Real-Encyklopadie , etc. , recent edition by Prof. Hauck , s. v. Virgilius ; also Kretschmer , pp. 56-58 ; also Whewell , vol. i , p. 197 ; also De Morgan , Budget of Paradoxes , pp. 24-26 . For very full notes as to pagan and Christian advocates of the doctrine of the sphericity of the earth and of the antipodes , and for extract from Zachary 's letter , see Migne , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ xli , p. 487 . For St. Boniface 's part , see Bonifacii Epistolae , ed . Giles , i , 173 . Berger de Xivrey , Traditions Teratologiques , pp. 186-188 , makes a curious attempt to show that Pope Zachary denounced the wrong man ; that the real offender was a Roman poet  --  in the sixth book of the Aeneid and the first book of the Georgics . This decision seems to have been regarded as final , and five centuries later the great encyclopedist of the Middle Ages , Vincent of Beauvais , though he accepts the sphericity of the earth , treats the doctrine of the antipodes as disproved , because contrary to Scripture . Yet the doctrine still lived . Just as it had been previously revived by William of Conches and then laid to rest , so now it is somewhat timidly brought out in the thirteenth century by no less a personage than Albert the Great , the most noted man of science in that time . But his utterances are perhaps purposely obscure . Again it disappears beneath the theological wave , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the King of France , a light of science , is forced to yield to the clear teaching of the Scripture as cited by St. Augustine . Nor was this the worst . In Italy , at the beginning of the fourteenth century , the Church thought it necessary to deal with questions of this sort by rack and fagot . In 1316 Peter of Abano , famous as a physician , having promulgated this with other obnoxious doctrines in science , only escaped the Inquisition by death ; and in 1327 Cecco d'Ascoli , noted as an astronomer , was for this and other results of thought , which brought him under suspicion of sorcery , driven from his professorship at Bologna and burned alive at Florence . Nor was this all his punishment : Orcagna , whose terrible frescoes still exist on the walls of the Campo Santo at Pisa , immortalized Cecco by representing him in the flames of hell. 35 35 For Vincent of Beauvais and the antipode , see his Speculum Naturale , Book VII , with citations from St. Augustine , De Civitate Dei , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regarding the antipodes , compare Kretschmer , as above , with Eicken , Geschichte , etc. , p. 621 . Kretschmer finds that Albert supports the doctrine , and Eicken finds that he denies it  --  a fair proof that Albert was not inclined to state his views with dangerous clearness . For D'Oresme , see Santerem , Histoire de la Cosmographie , vol. i , p. 142 . For Peter of Abano , or Apono , as he is often called , see Tiraboschi , also Guinguene , vol. ii , p. 293 ; also Naude , Histoire des Grands Hommes soupconnes de Magie . For Cecco d'Ascoli , see Montucla , Histoire de Mathematiques , i , 528 ; also Daunou , Etudes Historiques , vol. vi , p. 320 ; also Kretschmer , p. 59 . Concerning Orcagna 's representation of Cecco in the flames of hell , see Renan , Averroes et l'Averroisme , Paris , 1867 , p. 328 . Years rolled on , and there came in the fifteenth century one from whom the world had a right to expect much . Pierre d'Ailly , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be Provost of the College of St. Die in Lorraine ; his ability had made that little village a centre of scientific thought for all Europe , and finally made him Archbishop of Cambray and a cardinal . Toward the end of the fifteenth century was printed what Cardinal d'Ailly had written long before as a summing up of his best thought and research  --  the collection of essays known as the Ymago Mundi . It gives us one of the most striking examples in history of a great man in theological fetters . As he approaches this question he states it with such clearness that we expect to hear him assert the truth ; but there stands the argument of St. Augustine ; there , too , stand the biblical texts on which it is founded  --  the text from the Psalms and the explicit declaration of St. Paul to the Romans , " Their sound went into all the earth , and their words unto the ends of the world . " D'Ailly attempts to reason , but he is overawed , and gives to the world virtually nothing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moved : so much so that the eminent Spanish theologian Tostatus , even as late as the age of Columbus , felt called upon to protest against it as " unsafe . " He had shaped the old missile of St. Augustine into the following syllogism : " The apostles were commanded to go into all the world and to preach the gospel to every creature ; they did not go to any such part of the world as the antipodes ; they did not preach to any creatures there : ergo , no antipodes exist . " The warfare of Columbus the world knows well : how the Bishop of Ceuta worsted him in Portugal ; how sundry wise men of Spain confronted him with the usual quotations from the Psalms , from St. Paul , and from St. Augustine ; how , even after he was triumphant , and after his voyage had greatly strengthened the theory of the earth 's sphericity , with which the theory of the antipodes was so closely connected , the Church by its highest authority solemnly stumbled and persisted in going astray . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as an umpire between the claims of Spain and Portugal to the newly discovered parts of the earth , issued a bull laying down upon the earth 's surface a line of demarcation between the two powers . This line was drawn from north to south a hundred leagues west of the Azores ; and the Pope in the plenitude of his knowledge declared that all lands discovered east of this line should belong to the Portuguese , and all west of it should belong to the Spaniards . This was hailed as an exercise of divinely illuminated power by the Church ; but difficulties arose , and in 1506 another attempt was made by Pope Julius II to draw the line three hundred and seventy leagues west of the Cape Verde Islands . This , again , was supposed to bring divine wisdom to settle the question ; but , shortly , overwhelming difficulties arose ; for the Portuguese claimed Brazil , and , of course , had no difficulty in showing that they could reach it by sailing to the east of the line , provided they sailed long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Julius may still be found upon the maps of the period , but their bulls have quietly passed into the catalogue of ludicrous errors . Yet the theological barriers to this geographical truth yielded but slowly . Plain as it had become to scholars , they hesitated to declare it to the world at large . Eleven hundred years had passed since St. Augustine had proved its antagonism to Scripture , when Gregory Reysch gave forth his famous encyclopaedia , the Margarita Philosophica . Edition after edition was issued , and everywhere appeared in it the orthodox statements ; but they were evidently strained to the breaking point ; for while , in treating of the antipodes , Reysch refers respectfully to St. Augustine as objecting to the scientific doctrine , he is careful not to cite Scripture against it , and not less careful to suggest geographical reasoning in favour of it . But in 1519 science gains a crushing victory . Magellan makes his famous voyage . He proves the earth to be round , for his expedition circumnavigates it ; he proves the doctrine of the antipodes , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Yet even this does not end the war . Many conscientious men oppose the doctrine for two hundred years longer . Then the French astronomers make their measurements of degrees in equatorial and polar regions , and add to their proofs that of the lengthened pendulum . When this was done , when the deductions of science were seen to be established by the simple test of measurement , beautifully and perfectly , and when a long line of trustworthy explorers , including devoted missionaries , had sent home accounts of the antipodes , then , and then only , this war of twelve centuries ended . Such was the main result of this long war ; but there were other results not so fortunate . The efforts of Eusebius , Basil , and Lactantius to deaden scientific thought ; the efforts of Augustine to combat it ; the efforts of Cosmas to crush it by dogmatism ; the efforts of Boniface and Zachary to crush it by force , conscientious as they all were , had resulted simply in impressing upon many leading minds the conviction that science and religion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gained by the warriors of science for religion ? Certainly a far more worthy conception of the world , and a far more ennobling conception of that power which pervades and directs it . Which is more consistent with a great religion , the cosmography of Cosmas or that of Isaac Newton ? Which presents a nobler field for religious thought , the diatribes of Lactantius or the calm statements of Humboldt ? 36 36 For D'Ailly 's acceptance of St. Augustine 's argument , see the Ymago Mundi , cap . vii . For Tostatus , see Zockler , vol. i , pp. 467 , 468 . He based his opposition on Romans x , 18 . For Columbus , see Winsor , Fiske , and Adams ; also Humboldt , Histoire de la Geographie du Nouveau Continent . For the bull of Alexander VI , see Daunou , Etudes Historiques , vol. ii , p. 417 ; also Peschel , Zeitalter der Entdeckungen , Book II , chap . iv . The text of the bull is given with an English translation in Arber 's reprint of The First @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1885 , pp. 201-204 ; also especially Peschel , Die Theilung der Erde unter Papst Alexander VI and Julius II , Leipsic , 1871 , pp. 14 et seq . For remarks on the power under which the line was drawn by Alexander VI , see Mamiani , Del Papato nei Tre Ultimi Secoli , p. 170 . For maps showing lines of division , see Kohl , Die beiden altesten General-Karten von Amerika , Weimar , 1860 , where maps of 1527 and 1529 are reproduced ; also Mercator , Atlas , tenth edition , Amsterdam , 1628 , pp. 70 , 71 . For latest discussion on The Demarcation Line of Alexander VI , see E. G. Bourne in Yale Review , May , 1892 . For the Margarita Philosophica , see the editions of 1503 , 1509 , 1517 , lib. vii , cap . 48 . For the effect of Magellan 's voyages , and the reluctance to yield to proof , see Henri Martin , Histoire de France , vol. xiv , p. 395 ; St. Martin 's Histoire de la Geographie , p. 369 ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; and for an admirable summary , Draper , Hist . Int . Devel. of Europe , pp. 451-453 ; also an interesting passage in Sir Thomas Brown 's Vulgar and Common Errors , Book I , chap . vi ; also a striking passage in Acosta , chap . ii . For general statement as to supplementary proof by measurement of degrees and by pendulum , see Somerville , Phys . Geog. , chap . i , par . 6 , note ; also Humboldt , Cosmos , vol. ii , p. 736 , and vol. v , pp. 16 , 32 ; also Montucla , iv , 138 . As to the effect of travel , see Acosta 's history above cited . The good missionary says , in Grimston 's quaint translation , " Whatsoever Lactantius saith , wee that live now at Peru , and inhabite that parte of the worlde which is opposite to Asia and theire Antipodes , finde not ourselves to bee hanging in the aire , our heades downward and our feete on high . " IV . THE SIZE OF THE EARTH @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had stirred the minds of thinking men  --  THE EARTH 'S SIZE . Various ancient investigators had by different methods reached measurements more or less near the truth ; these methods were continued into the Middle Ages , supplemented by new thought , and among the more striking results were those obtained by Roger Bacon and Gerbert , afterward Pope Sylvester II . They handed down to after-time the torch of knowledge , but , as their reward among their contemporaries , they fell under the charge of sorcery . Far more consonant with the theological spirit of the Middle Ages was a solution of the problem from Scripture , and this solution deserves to be given as an example of a very curious theological error , chancing to result in the establishment of a great truth . The second book of Esdras , which among Protestants is placed in the Apocrypha , was held by many of the foremost men of the ancient Church as fully inspired : though Jerome looked with suspicion on this book , it was regarded as prophetic by Clement of Alexandria , Tertullian , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In the Eastern Church it held an especially high place , and in the Western Church , before the Reformation , was generally considered by the most eminent authorities to be part of the sacred canon . In the sixth chapter of this book there is a summary of the works of creation , and in it occur the following verses : " Upon the third day thou didst command that the waters should be gathered in the seventh part of the earth ; six parts hast thou dried up and kept them to the intent that of these some , being planted of God and tilled , might serve thee . " " Upon the fifth day thou saidst unto the seventh part where the waters were gathered , that it should bring forth living creatures , fowls and fishes , and so it came to pass . " These statements were reiterated in other verses , and were naturally considered as of controlling authority . Among the scholars who pondered on this as on all things likely to increase knowledge was Cardinal Pierre d'Ailly . As we have seen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the antipodes , as St. Augustine had done , believed firmly in the sphericity of the earth , and , interpreting these statements of the book of Esdras in connection with this belief , he held that , as only one seventh of the earth 's surface was covered by water , the ocean between the west coast of Europe and the east coast of Asia could not be very wide . Knowing , as he thought , the extent of the land upon the globe , he felt that in view of this divinely authorized statement the globe must be much smaller , and the land of " Zipango , " reached by Marco Polo , on the extreme east coast of Asia , much nearer than had been generally believed . On this point he laid stress in his great work , the Ymago Mundi , and an edition of it having been published in the days when Columbus was thinking most closely upon the problem of a westward voyage , it naturally exercised much influence upon his reasonings . Among the treasures of the library at Seville @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this work annotated by Columbus himself : from this very copy it was that Columbus obtained confirmation of his belief that the passage across the ocean to Marco Polo 's land of Zipango in Asia was short . But for this error , based upon a text supposed to be inspired , it is unlikely that Columbus could have secured the necessary support for his voyage . It is a curious fact that this single theological error thus promoted a series of voyages which completely destroyed not only this but every other conception of geography based upon the sacred writings. 37 37 For this error , so fruitful in discovery , see D'Ailly , Ymago Mundi ; the passage referred to is fol. 12 verso . For the passage from Esdras , see chap . vi , verses 42 , 47 , 50 , and 52 ; see also Zockler , Geschichte der Beziehungen zwischen Theologie und Naturweissenschaft , vol. i , p. 461 . For one of the best recent statements , see Ruge , Gesch. des Zeitalters der Entdeckungen , Berlin , 1882 , pp. 221 et seq . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mistake in Esdras , see Navarrete , Viajes y Descubrimientos , Madrid , 1825 , tome i , pp. 242 , 264 ; also Humboldt , Hist. de la Geographie du Nouveau Continent , vol. i , pp. 68 , 69 . V. THE CHARACTER OF THE EARTH 'S SURFACE . It would be hardly just to dismiss the struggle for geographical truth without referring to one passage more in the history of the Protestant Church , for it shows clearly the difficulties in the way of the simplest statement of geographical truth which conflicted with the words of the sacred books . In the year 1553 Michael Servetus was on trial for his life at Geneva on the charge of Arianism . Servetus had rendered many services to scientific truth , and one of these was an edition of Ptolemy 's Geography , in which Judea was spoken of , not as " a land flowing with milk and honey , " but , in strict accordance with the truth , as , in the main , meagre , barren , and inhospitable . In his trial this simple statement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ John Calvin with fearful power . In vain did Servetus plead that he had simply drawn the words from a previous edition of Ptolemy ; in vain did he declare that this statement was a simple geographical truth of which there were ample proofs : it was answered that such language " necessarily inculpated Moses , and grievously outraged the Holy Ghost . " 38 38 For Servetus 's geographical offense , see Rilliet , Relation du Proces criminel contre Michel Servet d'apres les Documents originaux , Geneva , 1844 , pp. 42,43 ; also Willis , Servetus and Calvin , London , 1877 , p. 325 . The passage condemned is in the Ptolemy of 1535 , fol. 41 . It was discreetly retrenched in a reprint of the same edition . In summing up the action of the Church upon geography , we must say , then , that the dogmas developed in strict adherence to Scripture and the conceptions held in the Church during many centuries " always , every where , and by all , " were , on the whole , steadily hostile to truth ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between the religious and the theological spirit . To the religious spirit are largely due several of the noblest among the great voyages of discovery . A deep longing to extend the realms of Christianity influenced the minds of Prince John of Portugal , in his great series of efforts along the African coast ; of Vasco da Gama , in his circumnavigation of the Cape of Good Hope ; of Magellan , in his voyage around the world ; and doubtless found a place among the more worldly motives of Columbus. 39 39 As to the earlier mixture in the motives of Columbus , it may be well to compare with the earlier biographies the recent ones by Dr. Winsor and President Adams . Thus , in this field , from the supremacy accorded to theology , we find resulting that tendency to dogmatism which has shown itself in all ages the deadly foe not only of scientific inquiry but of the higher religious spirit itself , while from the love of truth for truth 's sake , which has been the inspiration of all fruitful work in science , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ III . ASTRONOMY . I. THE OLD SACRED THEORY OF THE UNIVERSE . The next great series of battles was fought over the relations of the visible heavens to the earth . In the early Church , in view of the doctrine so prominent in the New Testament , that the earth was soon to be destroyed , and that there were to be " new heavens and a new earth , " astronomy , like other branches of science , was generally looked upon as futile . Why study the old heavens and the old earth , when they were so soon to be replaced with something infinitely better ? This feeling appears in St. Augustine 's famous utterance , " What concern is it to me whether the heavens as a sphere inclose the earth in the middle of the world or overhang it on either side ? " As to the heavenly bodies , theologians looked on them as at best only objects of pious speculation . Regarding their nature the fathers of the Church were divided . Origen , and others with him , thought them living @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ based upon the scriptural vision of the morning stars . singing together , and upon the beautiful appeal to the " stars and light " in the song of the three children  --  the Benedicite  --  which the Anglican communion has so wisely retained in its Liturgy . Other fathers thought the stars abiding-places of the angels , and that stars were moved by angels . The Gnostics thought the stars spiritual beings governed by angels , and appointed not to cause earthly events but to indicate them . As to the heavens in general , the prevailing view in the Church was based upon the scriptural declarations that a solid vault  --  a " firmament "  --  was extended above the earth , and that the heavenly bodies were simply lights hung within it . This was for a time held very tenaciously . St. Philastrius , in his famous treatise on heresies , pronounced it a heresy to deny that the stars are brought out by God from his treasure-house and hung in the sky every evening ; any other view he declared " false to the Catholic faith @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ established so firmly by Cosmas in the sixth century . Having established his plan of the universe upon various texts in the Old and New Testaments , and having made it a vast oblong box , covered by the solid " firmament , " he brought in additional texts from Scripture to account for the planetary movements , and developed at length the theory that the sun and planets are moved and the " windows of heaven " opened and shut by angels appointed for that purpose . How intensely real this way of looking at the universe was , we find in the writings of St. Isidore , the greatest leader of orthodox thought in the seventh century . He affirms that since the fall of man , and on account of it , the sun and moon shine with a feebler light ; but he proves from a text in Isaiah that when the world shall be fully redeemed these " great lights " will shine again in all their early splendour . But , despite these authorities and their theological finalities , the evolution of scientific thought continued @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doctrine that the earth is the centre , and that the sun and planets revolve about it. 40 40 For passage cited from Clement of Alexandria , see English translation , Edinburgh , 1869 , vol. ii , p. 368 ; also the Miscellanies , Book V , cap . vi . For typical statements by St. Augustine , see De Genesi , ii , cap . ix , in Migne , Patr . Lat. , tome xxiv , pp. 270-271 . For Origen 's view , see the De Principiis , lib. i , cap . vii ; see also Leopardi 's Errori Populari , cap . xi ; also Wilson 's Selections from the Prophetic Scriptures in Ante-Nicene Library , p. 132 . For Philo Judaeus , see On the Creation of the World , chaps . xviii and xix , and On Monarchy , chap . i . For St. Isidore , see the De Ordine Creaturarum , cap v , in Migne , Patr . Lat. , lxxxiii , pp. 923-925 ; also 1000 , 1001 . For Philastrius , see the De Hoeresibus , chap . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . For Cosmas 's view , see his Topographia Christiana , in Montfaucon , Col. Nov . Patrum , ii , p. 150 , and elsewhere as cited in my chapter on Geography . This doctrine was of the highest respectability : it had been developed at a very early period , and had been elaborated until it accounted well for the apparent movements of the heavenly bodies ; its final name , " Ptolemaic theory , " carried weight ; and , having thus come from antiquity into the Christian world , St. Clement of Alexandria demonstrated that the altar in the Jewish tabernacle was " a symbol of the earth placed in the middle of the universe " : nothing more was needed ; the geocentric theory was fully adopted by the Church and universally held to agree with the letter and spirit of Scripture. 41 41 As to the respectibility of the geocentric theory , etc. , see Grote 's Plato , vol. iii , p. 257 ; also Sir G. C. Lewis 's Astronomy of the Ancients , chap . iii , sec. 1 , for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from ancient statements . For plausible elaboration of it , and for supposed agreement of the Scripture with it , see Fromundus , Anti-Aristarchus , Antwerp , 1631 ; also Melanchthon 's Initia Doctrinae Physicae . For an admirable statement of the theological view of the geocentric theory , antipodes , etc. , see Eicken , Geschichte und System der mittelalterlichen Weltanschauung , pp. 618 et seq . Wrought into this foundation , and based upon it , there was developed in the Middle Ages , mainly out of fragments of Chaldean and other early theories preserved in the Hebrew Scriptures , a new sacred system of astronomy , which became one of the great treasures of the universal Church  --  the last word of revelation . Three great men mainly reared this structure . First was the unknown who gave to the world the treatises ascribed to Dionysius the Areopagite . It was unhesitatingly believed that these were the work of St. Paul 's Athenian convert , and therefore virtually of St. Paul himself . Though now known to be spurious , they were then considered a treasure of inspiration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an emperor of the West as the most worthy of gifts . In the ninth century they were widely circulated in western Europe , and became a fruitful source of thought , especially on the whole celestial hierarchy . Thus the old ideas of astronomy were vastly developed , and the heavenly hosts were classed and named in accordance with indications scattered through the sacred Scriptures . The next of these three great theologians was Peter Lombard , professor at the University of Paris . About the middle of the twelfth century he gave forth his collection of Sentences , or Statements by the Fathers , and this remained until the end of the Middle Ages the universal manual of theology . In it was especially developed the theological view of man 's relation to the universe . The author tells the world : " Just as man is made for the sake of God  --  that is , that he may serve Him ,  --  so the universe is made for the sake of man  --  that is , that it may serve HIM ; therefore is man placed at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both serve and be served . " The vast significance of this view , and its power in resisting any real astronomical science , we shall see , especially in the time of Galileo . The great triad of thinkers culminated in St. Thomas Aquinas  --  the sainted theologian , the glory of the mediaeval Church , the " Angelic Doctor , " the most marvellous intellect between Aristotle and Newton ; he to whom it was believed that an image of the Crucified had spoken words praising his writings . Large of mind , strong , acute , yet just  --  even more than just  --  to his opponents , he gave forth , in the latter half of the thirteenth century , his Cyclopaedia of Theology , the Summa Theologica . In this he carried the sacred theory of the universe to its full development . With great power and clearness he brought the whole vast system , material and spiritual , into its relations to God and man. 42 42 For the beliefs of Chaldean astronomers in revolving spheres carrying sun , moon , and planets , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ angels as giving motion to the planets , see Lenormant ; also Lethaby , 13-21 ; also Schroeder , Jensen , Lukas , et al . For the contribution of the pseudo-Dionysius to mediaeval cosmology , see Dion . Areopagita , De Coelesti Hierarchia , vers . Joan . Scoti , in Migne , Patr . Lat. , cxxii . For the contribution of Peter Lombard , see Pet . Lomb. , Libr . Sent. , II , i , 8 , - IV , i , 6 , 7 , in Migne , tome 192 . For the citations from St. Thomas Aquinas , see the Summa , ed . Migne , especially Pars I , Qu. 70 , ( tome i , pp. 1174-1184 ) ; also Quaestio 47 , Art . iii . For good general statement , see Milman , Latin Christianity , iv , 191 et seq. ; and for relation of Cosmas to these theologians of western Europe , see Milman , as above , viii , 228 , note . Thus was the vast system developed by these three leaders of mediaeval thought ; and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into European belief , the poet divinely inspired who made the system part of the world 's LIFE . Pictured by Dante , the empyrean and the concentric heavens , paradise , purgatory , and hell , were seen of all men ; the God Triune , seated on his throne upon the circle of the heavens , as real as the Pope seated in the chair of St. Peter ; the seraphim , cherubim , and thrones , surrounding the Almighty , as real as the cardinals surrounding the Pope ; the three great orders of angels in heaven , as real as the three great orders , bishops , priests , and deacons , on earth ; and the whole system of spheres , each revolving within the one above it , and all moving about the earth , subject to the primum mobile , as real as the feudal system of western Europe , subject to the Emperor. 43 43 For the central sun , hierarchy of angels , and concentric circles , see Dante , Paradiso , canto xxviii . For the words of St. Thomas Aquinas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Middle Ages , see canto x , and in Dean Plumptre 's translation , vol. ii , pp. 56 et seq. ; also Botta , Dante , pp. 350 , 351 . As to Dante 's deep religious feeling and belief in his own divine mission , see J. R. Lowell , Among my Books , vol. i , p. 36 . For a remarkable series of coloured engravings , showing Dante 's whole cosmology , see La Materia della Divina Comedia di Dante dichiriata in vi tavole , da Michelangelo Caetani , published by the monks of Monte Cassino , to whose kindness I am indebted for my copy . Let us look into this vast creation  --  the highest achievement of theology  --  somewhat more closely . Its first feature shows a development out of earlier theological ideas . The earth is no longer a flat plain inclosed by four walls and solidly vaulted above , as theologians of previous centuries had believed it , under the inspiration of Cosmas ; it is no longer a mere flat disk , with sun , moon , and stars hung @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sculptors had figured it ; it has become a globe at the centre of the universe . Encompassing it are successive transparent spheres , rotated by angels about the earth , and each carrying one or more of the heavenly bodies with it : that nearest the earth carrying the moon ; the next , Mercury ; the next , Venus ; the next , the Sun ; the next three , Mars , Jupiter , and Saturn ; the eighth carrying the fixed stars . The ninth was the primum mobile , and inclosing all was the tenth heaven  --  the Empyrean . This was immovable  --  the boundary between creation and the great outer void ; and here , in a light which no one can enter , the Triune God sat enthroned , the " music of the spheres " rising to Him as they moved . Thus was the old heathen doctrine of the spheres made Christian . In attendance upon the Divine Majesty , thus enthroned , are vast hosts of angels , who are divided into three hierarchies , one serving in the empyrean , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ earth , and one on the earth . Each of these hierarchies is divided into three choirs , or orders ; the first , into the orders of Seraphim , Cherubim , and Thrones ; and the main occupation of these is to chant incessantly  --  to " continually cry " the divine praises . The order of Thrones conveys God 's will to the second hierarchy , which serves in the movable heavens . This second hierarchy is also made up of three orders . The first of these , the order of Dominions , receives the divine commands ; the second , the order of Powers , moves the heavens , sun , moon , planets , and stars , opens and shuts the " windows of heaven , " and brings to pass all other celestial phenomena ; the third , the order of Empire , guards the others . The third and lowest hierarchy is also made up of three orders . First of these are the Principalities , the guardian spirits of nations and kingdoms . Next come Archangels ; these protect religion , and bear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's throne . Finally come Angels ; these care for earthly affairs in general , one being appointed to each mortal , and others taking charge of the qualities of plants , metals , stones , and the like . Throughout the whole system , from the great Triune God to the lowest group of angels , we see at work the mystic power attached to the triangle and sacred number three  --  the same which gave the triune idea to ancient Hindu theology , which developed the triune deities in Egypt , and which transmitted this theological gift to the Christian world , especially through the Egyptian Athanasius . Below the earth is hell . This is tenanted by the angels who rebelled under the lead of Lucifer , prince of the seraphim  --  the former favourite of the Trinity ; but , of these rebellious angels , some still rove among the planetary spheres , and give trouble to the good angels ; others pervade the atmosphere about the earth , carrying lightning , storm , drought , and hail ; others infest earthly society , tempting men to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pains to show that the work of these devils is , after all , but to discipline man or to mete out deserved punishment . All this vast scheme had been so riveted into the Ptolemaic view by the use of biblical texts and theological reasonings that the resultant system of the universe was considered impregnable and final . To attack it was blasphemy . It stood for centuries . Great theological men of science , like Vincent of Beauvais and Cardinal d'Ailly , devoted themselves to showing not only that it was supported by Scripture , but that it supported Scripture . Thus was the geocentric theory embedded in the beliefs and aspirations , in the hopes and fears , of Christendom down to the middle of the sixteenth century. 44 44 For the earlier cosmology of Cosmas , with citations from Montfaucon , see the chapter on Geography in this work . For the views of mediaeval theologians , see foregoing notes in this chapter . For the passages of Scripture on which the theological part of this structure was developed , see especially Romans viii , 38 ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ii , 15 ; and innumerable passages in the Old Testament . As to the music of the spheres , see Dean Plumptre 's Dante , vol. ii , p. 4 , note . For an admirable summing up of the mediaeval cosmology in its relation to thought in general , see Rydberg , Magic of the Middle Ages , chap . i , whose summary I have followed in the main . For striking woodcuts showing the view taken of the successive heavens with their choirs of angels , the earth being at the centre with the spheres about it , and the Almighty on his throne above all , see the Neuremberg Chronicle , ff . iv and v ; its date is 1493 . For charts showing the continuance of this general view down to the beginning of the sixteenth century , see the various editions of the Margarita Philosophica , from that of 1503 onward , astronomical part . For interesting statements regarding the Trinities of gods in ancient Egypt , see Sharpe , History of Egypt , vol. i , pp. 94 and 101 . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an eminent Scotch Doctor of Medicine , to account for the ancient Hindu and Egyptian sacred threes and trinities . The lecturer 's theory was that , when Jehovah came down into the Garden of Eden and walked with Adam in " the cool of the day , " he explained his triune character to Adam , and that from Adam it was spread abroad to the various ancient nations . II . THE HELIOCENTRIC THEORY . But , on the other hand , there had been planted , long before , the germs of a heliocentric theory . In the sixth century before our era , Pythagoras , and after him Philolaus , had suggested the movement of the earth and planets about a central fire ; and , three centuries later , Aristarchus had restated the main truth with striking precision . Here comes in a proof that the antagonism between theological and scientific methods is not confined to Christianity ; for this statement brought upon Aristarchus the charge of blasphemy , and drew after it a cloud of prejudice which hid the truth for six hundred years . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ timidly appear in the thoughts of Martianus Capella : then it was again lost to sight for a thousand years , until in the fifteenth century , distorted and imperfect , it appeared in the writings of Cardinal Nicholas de Cusa . But in the shade cast by the vast system which had grown from the minds of the great theologians and from the heart of the great poet there had come to this truth neither bloom nor fruitage . Quietly , however , the soil was receiving enrichment and the air warmth . The processes of mathematics were constantly improved , the heavenly bodies were steadily observed , and at length appeared , far from the centres of thought , on the borders of Poland , a plain , simple-minded scholar , who first fairly uttered to the modern world the truth  --  now so commonplace , then so astounding  --  that the sun and planets do not revolve about the earth , but that the earth and planets revolve about the sun : this man was Nicholas Copernicus . Copernicus had been a professor at Rome , and even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but more in the way of a scientific curiosity or paradox , as it had been previously held by Cardinal de Cusa , than as the statement of a system representing a great fact in Nature . About thirty years later one of his disciples , Widmanstadt , had explained it to Clement VII ; but it still remained a mere hypothesis , and soon , like so many others , disappeared from the public view . But to Copernicus , steadily studying the subject , it became more and more a reality , and as this truth grew within him he seemed to feel that at Rome he was no longer safe . To announce his discovery there as a theory or a paradox might amuse the papal court , but to announce it as a truth  --  as THE truth  --  was a far different matter . He therefore returned to his little town in Poland . To publish his thought as it had now developed was evidently dangerous even there , and for more than thirty years it lay slumbering in the mind of Copernicus and of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last he prepared his great work on the Revolutions of the Heavenly Bodies , and dedicated it to the Pope himself . He next sought a place of publication . He dared not send it to Rome , for there were the rulers of the older Church ready to seize it ; he dared not send it to Wittenberg , for there were the leaders of Protestantism no less hostile ; he therefore intrusted it to Osiander , at Nuremberg. 45 45 For the germs of heliocentric theory planted long before , see Sir G. C. Lewis ; and for a succinct statement of the claims of Pythagoras , Philolaus , Aristarchus , and Martianus Capella , see Hoefer , Hisoire de l'Astronomie , 1873 , p. 107 et seq. ; also Heller , Geschichte der Physik , Stuttgart , 1882 , vol. i , pp. 12 , 13 ; also pp. 99 et seq . For germs among thinkers of India , see Whewell , vol. i , p. 277 ; also Whitney , Oriental and Linguistic Studies , New York , 1874 ; Essay on the Lunar Zodiac , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , see his Speculum Naturale , lib. xvi , cap . 21 . For Cardinal d'Ailly 's view , see his treatise De Concordia Astronomicae Veritatis cum Theologia ( in his Ymago Mundi and separately ) . For general statement of De Cusa 's work , see Draper , Intellectual Development of Europe , p. 512 . For skilful use of De Cusa 's view in order to mitigate censure upon the Church for its treatment of Copernicus 's discovery , see an article in the Catholic World for January , 1869 . For a very exact statement , in the spirit of judicial fairness , see Whewell , History of the Inductive Sciences , p. 275 , and pp. 379 , 380 . In the latter , Whewell cites the exact words of De Cusa in the De Docta Ignorantia , and sums up in these words : " This train of thought might be a preparation for the reception of the Copernican system ; but it is very different from the doctrine that the sun is the centre of the planetary system . " Whewell says : " De @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more as a paradox than as a reality . We can not consider this as any distinct anticipation of a profound and consistent view of the truth . " On De Cusa , see also Heller , vol. i , p. 216 . For Aristotle 's views , and their elaboration by St. Thomas Aquinas , see the De Coelo et Mundo , sec. xx , and elsewhere in the latter . It is curious to see how even such a biographer as Archbishop Vaughan slurs over the angelic Doctor 's errors . See Vaughan 's Life and Labours of St. Thomas of Aquin , pp. 459 , 460 . As to Copernicus 's danger at Rome , the Catholic World for January , 1869 , cites a speech of the Archbishop of Mechlin before the University of Louvain , to the effect that Copernicus defended his theory at Rome , in 1500 , before two thousand scholars ; also , that another professor taught the system in 1528 , and was made apostolic notary by Clement VIII . All this , even if the doctrines taught were identical with Copernicus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  avails nothing against the overwhelming testimony that Copernicus felt himself in danger  --  testimony which the after-history of the Copernican theory renders invincible . The very title of Fromundus 's book , already cited , published within a few miles of the archbishop 's own cathedral , and sanctioned expressly by the theological faculty of that same University of Louvain in 1630 , utterly refutes the archbishop 's idea that the Church was inclined to treat Copernicus kindly . The title is as follows : Ant-Aristarchus sive Orbis-Terrae Immobilis , in quo decretum S. Congregationis S. R. E. Cardinal . an . M.DC.XVI adversus Pythagorico-Copernicanos editum defenditur , Antverpiae , MDCXXI . L'Epinois , Galilee , Paris , 1867 , lays stress , p. 14 , on the broaching of the doctrine by De Cusa in 1435 , and by Widmanstadt in 1533 , and their kind treatment by Eugenius IV and Clement VII ; but this is absolutely worthless in denying the papal policy afterward . Lange , Geschichte des Materialismus , vol. i , pp. 217 , 218 , while admitting that De Cusa and Widmanstadt sustained this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that , when the Church gave it serious consideration , it was condemned . There is nothing in this view unreasonable . It would be a parallel case to that of Leo X , at first inclined toward Luther and others , in their " squabbles with the envious friars , " and afterward forced to oppose them . That Copernicus felt the danger , is evident , among other things , by the expression in the preface : " Statim me explodendum cum tali opinione clamitant . " For dangers at Wittenberg , see Lange , as above , vol. i , p. 217 . But Osiander 's courage failed him : he dared not launch the new thought boldly . He wrote a grovelling preface , endeavouring to excuse Copernicus for his novel idea , and in this he inserted the apologetic lie that Copernicus had propounded the doctrine of the earth 's movement not as a fact , but as a hypothesis . He declared that it was lawful for an astronomer to indulge his imagination , and that this was what Copernicus had done . Thus was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ truths  --  a truth not less ennobling to religion than to science  --  forced , in coming before the world , to sneak and crawl. 46 46 Osiander , in a letter to Copernicus , dated April 20 , 1541 , had endeavored to reconcile him to such a procedure , and ends by saying , " Sic enim placidiores reddideris peripatheticos et theologos quos contradicturos metuis . " See Apologia Tychonis in Kepler 's Opera Omnia , Frisch 's edition , vol. i , p. 246 . Kepler holds Osiander entirely responsible for this preface . Bertrand , in his Fondateurs de l " astronomie moderne , gives its text , and thinks it possible that Copernicus may have yielded " in pure condescension toward his disciple . " But this idea is utterly at variance with expressions in Copernicus 's own dedicatory letter to the Pope , which follows the preface . For a good summary of the argument , see Figuier , Savants de la Renaissance , pp. 378 , 379 ; see also citation from Gassendi 's Life of Copernicus , in Flammarion , Vie de Copernic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he usually is , in his Outlines of Cosmic Philosophy appears to have followed Laplace , Delambre , and Petit into the error of supposing that Copernicus , and not Osiander , is responsible for the preface . For the latest proofs , see Menzer 's translation of Copernicus 's work , Thorn , 1879 , notes on pp. 3 and 4 of the appendix . On the 24th of May , 1543 , the newly printed book arrived at the house of Copernicus . It was put into his hands ; but he was on his deathbed . A few hours later he was beyond the reach of the conscientious men who would have blotted his reputation and perhaps have destroyed his life . Yet not wholly beyond their reach . Even death could not be trusted to shield him . There seems to have been fear of vengeance upon his corpse , for on his tombstone was placed no record of his lifelong labours , no mention of his great discovery ; but there was graven upon it simply a prayer : " I ask not the grace accorded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ me only the favour which Thou didst show to the thief on the cross . " Not till thirty years after did a friend dare write on his tombstone a memorial of his discovery. 47 47 See Flammarion , Vie de Copernic , p. 190 . The preface of Osiander , pretending that the book of Copernicus suggested a hypothesis instead of announcing a truth , served its purpose well . During nearly seventy years the Church authorities evidently thought it best not to stir the matter , and in some cases professors like Calganini were allowed to present the new view purely as a hypothesis . There were , indeed , mutterings from time to time on the theological side , but there was no great demonstration against the system until 1616 . Then , when the Copernican doctrine was upheld by Galileo as a TRUTH , and proved to be a truth by his telescope , the book was taken in hand by the Roman curia . The statements of Copernicus were condemned , " until they should be corrected " ; and the corrections required were simply such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . That this was their purpose was seen in that year when Galileo was forbidden to teach or discuss the Copernican theory , and when were forbidden " all books which affirm the motion of the earth . " Henceforth to read the work of Copernicus was to risk damnation , and the world accepted the decree. 48 The strongest minds were thus held fast . If they could not believe the old system , they must PRETEND that they believed it ;  --  and this , even after the great circumnavigation of the globe had done so much to open the eyes of the world ! Very striking is the case of the eminent Jesuit missionary Joseph Acosta , whose great work on the Natural and Moral History of the Indies , published in the last quarter of the sixteenth century , exploded so many astronomical and geographical errors . Though at times curiously credulous , he told the truth as far as he dared ; but as to the movement of the heavenly bodies he remained orthodox  --  declaring , " I have seen the two poles , whereon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ authorities deciding this matter in accordance with the wishes of Pope V and Cardinal Bellarmine were the Congregation of the Index , or cardinals having charge of the Index Librorum Prohibitorum . Recent desperate attempts to fasten the responsibility on them as individuals seem ridiculous in view of the simple fact that their work was sanctioned by the highest Church authority , and required to be universally accepted by the Church . Eleven different editions of the Index in my own possession prove this . Nearly all of these declare on their title-pages that they are issued by order of the pontiff of the period , and each is preface by a special papal bull or letter . See especially the Index of 1664 , issued under order of Alexander VII , and that of 1761 , under Benedict XIV . Copernicus 's statements were prohibited in the Index " donec corrigantur . " Kepler said that it ought to be worded " donec explicetur . " See Bertand , Fondateurs de l'Astronomie moderne , p. 57 . De Morgan , pp. 57-60 , gives the corrections required by the Index @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reduce Copernicus to the grovelling level of Osiander , making his discovery a mere hypothesis ; but occasionally they require a virtual giving up of the whole Copernican doctrine  --  e.g. , " correction " insisted upon for chap . viii , p. 6 . For a scholarly account of the relation between Prohibitory and Expurgatory Indexes to each other , see Mendham , Literary Policy of the Church of Rome ; also Reusch , Index der verbotenen Bucher , Bonn , 1855 , vol. ii , chaps i and ii . For a brief but very careful statement , see Gebler , Galileo Galilei , English translation , London , 1879 , chap . i ; see also Addis and Arnold 's Catholic Dictionary , article Galileo , p.8 . There was , indeed , in Europe one man who might have done much to check this current of unreason which was to sweep away so many thoughtful men on the one hand from scientific knowledge , and so many on the other from Christianity . This was Peter Apian . He was one of the great mathematical and astronomical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him the astronomical teacher of the Emperor Charles V. His work on geography had brought him a world-wide reputation ; his work on astronomy brought him a patent of nobility ; his improvements in mathematical processes and astronomical instruments brought him the praise of Kepler and a place in the history of science : never had a true man better opportunity to do a great deed . When Copernicus 's work appeared , Apian was at the height of his reputation and power : a quiet , earnest plea from him , even if it had been only for ordinary fairness and a suspension of judgment , must have carried much weight . His devoted pupil , Charles V , who sat on the thrones of Germany and Spain , must at least have given a hearing to such a plea . But , unfortunately , Apian was a professor in an institution of learning under the strictest Church control  --  the University of Ingolstadt . His foremost duty was to teach SAFE science  --  to keep science within the line of scriptural truth as interpreted by theological professors . His @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Ptolemaic theory and astrology in his lecture-room . The attack on the Copernican theory he neither supported nor opposed ; he was silent ; and the cause of his silence should never be forgotten so long as any Church asserts its title to control university instruction. 49 49 For Joseph Acosta 's statement , see the translation of his History , published by the Hakluyt Society , chap . ii . For Peter Apian , see Madler , Geschichte der Astronomie , Braunschweig , 1873 , vol. i , p. 141 . For evidences of the special favour of Charles V , see Delambre , Histoire de l'Astronomie au Moyen Age , p. 390 ; also Bruhns , in the Allgemeine deutsche Biographie . For an attempted apology for him , see Gunther , Peter and Philipp Apian , Prag , 1822 , p. 62 . Doubtless many will exclaim against the Roman Catholic Church for this ; but the simple truth is that Protestantism was no less zealous against the new scientific doctrine . All branches of the Protestant Church  --  Lutheran , Calvinist , Anglican  --  vied with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Scripture ; and , at a later period , the Puritans showed the same tendency . Said Martin Luther : " People gave ear to an upstart astrologer who strove to show that the earth revolves , not the heavens or the firmament , the sun and the moon . Whoever wishes to appear clever must devise some new system , which of all systems is of course the very best . This fool wishes to reverse the entire science of astronomy ; but sacred Scripture tells us that Joshua commanded the sun to stand still , and not the earth . " Melanchthon , mild as he was , was not behind Luther in condemning Copernicus . In his treatise on the Elements of Physics , published six years after Copernicus 's death , he says : " The eyes are witnesses that the heavens revolve in the space of twenty-four hours . But certain men , either from the love of novelty , or to make a display of ingenuity , have concluded that the earth moves ; and they maintain that neither the eighth sphere nor the sun @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and decency to assert such notions publicly , and the example is pernicious . It is the part of a good mind to accept the truth as revealed by God and to acquiesce in it . " Melanchthon then cites the passages in the Psalms and Ecclesiastes , which he declares assert positively and clearly that the earth stands fast and that the sun moves around it , and adds eight other proofs of his proposition that " the earth can be nowhere if not in the centre of the universe . " So earnest does this mildest of the Reformers become , that he suggests severe measures to restrain such impious teachings as those of Copernicus. 50 50 See the Tischreden in the Walsch edition of Luther 's Works , 1743 , vol. xxii , p. 2260 ; also Melanchthon 's Initia Doctrinae Physicae . This treatise is cited under a mistaken title by the Catholic World , September , 1870 . The correct title is as given above ; it will be found in the Corpus Reformatorum , vol. xiii ( ed . Bretschneider , Halle , 1846 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vol. i , p. 176 ; also Lange , Geschichte des Materialismus , vol. i , p. 217 ; also Prowe , Ueber die Abhangigkeit des Copernicus , Thorn , 1865 , p. 4 ; also note , pp. 5 , 6 , where text is given in full . While Lutheranism was thus condemning the theory of the earth 's movement , other branches of the Protestant Church did not remain behind . Calvin took the lead , in his Commentary on Genesis , by condemning all who asserted that the earth is not at the centre of the universe . He clinched the matter by the usual reference to the first verse of the ninety-third Psalm , and asked , " Who will venture to place the authority of Copernicus above that of the Holy Spirit ? " Turretin , Calvin 's famous successor , even after Kepler and Newton had virtually completed the theory of Copernicus and Galileo , put forth his compendium of theology , in which he proved , from a multitude of scriptural texts , that the heavens , sun , and moon move about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In England we see similar theological efforts , even after they had become evidently futile . Hutchinson 's Moses 's Principia , Dr. Samuel Pike 's Sacred Philosophy , the writings of Horne , Bishop Horsley , and President Forbes contain most earnest attacks upon the ideas of Newton , such attacks being based upon Scripture . Dr. John Owen , so famous in the annals of Puritanism , declared the Copernican system a " delusive and arbitrary hypothesis , contrary to Scripture " ; and even John Wesley declared the new ideas to " tend toward infidelity. " 51 51 On the teachings on Protestantism as regards the Copernican theory , see citations in Canon Farrar 's History of Interpretation , preface , xviii ; also Rev. Dr. Shields , of Princeton , The Final Philosophy , pp. 60 , 61 . And Protestant peoples were not a whit behind Catholic in following out such teachings . The people of Elbing made themselves merry over a farce in which Copernicus was the main object of ridicule . The people of Nuremberg , a Protestant stronghold , caused a medal to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Why the people at large took this view is easily understood when we note the attitude of the guardians of learning , both Catholic and Protestant , in that age . It throws great light upon sundry claims by modern theologians to take charge of public instruction and of the evolution of science . So important was it thought to have " sound learning " guarded and " safe science " taught , that in many of the universities , as late as the end of the seventeenth century , professors were forced to take an oath not to hold the " Pythagorean "  --  that is , the Copernican  --  idea as to the movement of the heavenly bodies . As the contest went on , professors were forbidden to make known to students the facts revealed by the telescope . Special orders to this effect were issued by the ecclesiastical authorities to the universities and colleges of Pisa , Innspruck , Louvain , Douay , Salamanca , and others . During generations we find the authorities of these Universities boasting that these godless doctrines were kept away from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made then , just as it is touching now to hear sundry excellent university authorities boast that they discourage the reading of Mill , Spencer , and Darwin . Nor were such attempts to keep the truth from students confined to the Roman Catholic institutions of learning . Strange as it may seem , nowhere were the facts confirming the Copernican theory more carefully kept out of sight than at Wittenberg  --  the university of Luther and Melanchthon . About the middle of the sixteenth century there were at that centre of Protestant instruction two astronomers of a very high order , Rheticus and Reinhold ; both of these , after thorough study , had convinced themselves that the Copernican system was true , but neither of them was allowed to tell this truth to his students . Neither in his lecture announcements nor in his published works did Rheticus venture to make the new system known , and he at last gave up his professorship and left Wittenberg , that he might have freedom to seek and tell the truth . Reinhold was even more wretchedly humiliated . Convinced of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to advocate the old ; if he mentioned the Copernican ideas , he was compelled to overlay them with the Ptolemaic . Even this was not thought safe enough , and in 1571 the subject was intrusted to Peucer . He was eminently " sound , " and denounced the Copernican theory in his lectures as " absurd , and unfit to be introduced into the schools . " To clinch anti-scientific ideas more firmly into German Protestant teaching , Rector Hensel wrote a text-book for schools entitled The Restored Mosaic System of the World , which showed the Copernican astronomy to be unscriptural . Doubtless this has a far-off sound ; yet its echo comes very near modern Protestantism in the expulsion of Dr. Woodrow by the Presbyterian authorities in South Carolina ; the expulsion of Prof. Winchell by the Methodist Episcopal authorities in Tennessee ; the expulsion of Prof. Toy by Baptist authorities in Kentucky ; the expulsion of the professors at Beyrout under authority of American Protestant divines  --  all for holding the doctrines of modern science , and in the last years of the nineteenth century. 52 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ see The Catholic World , as above ; also Melanchthon , ubi supra ; also Prowe , Copernicus , Berlin , 1883 , vol. i , p. 269 , note ; also pp. 279 , 280 ; also Madler , i , p.167 . For Rector Hensel , see Rev. Dr. Shield 's Final Philosophy , p. 60 . For details of recent Protestant efforts against evolution doctrines , see the chapter on the Fall of Man and Anthropology in this work . But the new truth could not be concealed ; it could neither be laughed down nor frowned down . Many minds had received it , but within the hearing of the papacy only one tongue appears to have dared to utter it clearly . This new warrior was that strange mortal , Giordano Bruno . He was hunted from land to land , until at last he turned on his pursuers with fearful invectives . For this he was entrapped at Venice , imprisoned during six years in the dungeons of the Inquisition at Rome , then burned alive , and his ashes scattered to the winds . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after the martyrdom of Bruno the truth of Copernicus 's doctrine was established by the telescope of Galileo. 53 53 For Bruno , see Bartholmess , Vie de Jordano Bruno , Paris , 1846 , vol. i , p.121 and pp. 212 et seq. ; also Berti , Vita di Giordano Bruno , Firenze , 1868 , chap . xvi ; also Whewell , vol. i , pp. 272 , 273 . That Whewell is somewhat hasty in attributing Bruno 's punishment entirely to the Spaccio della Bestia Trionfante will be evident , in spite of Montucla , to anyone who reads the account of the persecution in Bartholmess or Berti ; and even if Whewell be right , the Spaccio would never have been written but for Bruno 's indignation at ecclesiastical oppression . See Tiraboschi , vol. vii , pp. 466 et seq . Herein was fulfilled one of the most touching of prophecies . Years before , the opponents of Copernicus had said to him , " If your doctrines were true , Venus would show phases like the moon . " Copernicus answered : " You are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ God is good , and will in time find an answer to this objection . " The God-given answer came when , in 1611 , the rude telescope of Galileo showed the phases of Venus. 54 54 For the relation of these discoveries to Copernicus 's work , see Delambre , Histoire de l'Astronomie moderne , discours preliminaire , p. xiv ; also Laplace , Systeme du Monde , vol. i , p. 326 ; and for more careful statements , Kepler 's Opera Omnia , edit . Frisch , tome ii , p. 464 . For Copernicus 's prophecy , see Cantu , Histoire Univerelle , vol. xv , p. 473 . ( Cantu was an eminent Roman Catholic . ) III . THE WAR UPON GALILEO . On this new champion , Galileo , the whole war was at last concentrated . His discoveries had clearly taken the Copernican theory out of the list of hypotheses , and had placed it before the world as a truth . Against him , then , the war was long and bitter . The supporters of what was called " sound learning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Semi-scientific professors , endeavouring to curry favour with the Church , attacked him with sham science ; earnest preachers attacked him with perverted Scripture ; theologians , inquisitors , congregations of cardinals , and at last two popes dealt with him , and , as was supposed , silenced his impious doctrine forever. 55 55 A very curious example of this sham science employed by theologians is seen in the argument , frequently used at that time , that , if the earth really moved , a stone falling from a height would fall back of a point immediately below its point of starting . This is used by Fromundus with great effect . It appears never to have occurred to him to test the matter by dropping a stone from the topmast of a ship . Bezenburg has mathematically demonstrated just such an abberation in falling bodies , as is mathematically required by the diurnal motion of the earth . See Jevons , Principles of Science , pp. 388 , 389 , second edition , 1877 . I shall present this warfare at some length because , so far as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been given in our language , since the whole history was placed in a new light by the revelations of the trial documents in the Vatican Library , honestly published for the first time by L'Epinois in 1867 , and since that by Gebler , Berti , Favaro , and others . The first important attack on Galileo began in 1610 , when he announced that his telescope had revealed the moons of the planet Jupiter . The enemy saw that this took the Copernican theory out of the realm of hypothesis , and they gave battle immediately . They denounced both his method and its results as absurd and impious . As to his method , professors bred in the " safe science " favoured by the Church argued that the divinely appointed way of arriving at the truth in astronomy was by theological reasoning on texts of Scripture ; and , as to his results , they insisted , first , that Aristotle knew nothing of these new revelations ; and , next , that the Bible showed by all applicable types that there could be only seven planets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Apocalypse , by the seven-branched candlestick of the tabernacle , and by the seven churches of Asia ; that from Galileo 's doctrine consequences must logically result destructive to Christian truth . Bishops and priests therefore warned their flocks , and multitudes of the faithful besought the Inquisition to deal speedily and sharply with the heretic. 56 56 See Delambre on the discovery of the satellites of Jupiter as the turning-point with the heliocentric doctrine . As to its effects on Bacon , see Jevons , p. 638 , as above . For argument drawn from the candlestick and the seven churches , see Delambre , p. 20 . In vain did Galileo try to prove the existence of satellites by showing them to the doubters through his telescope : they either declared it impious to look , or , if they did look , denounced the satellites as illusions from the devil . Good Father Clavius declared that " to see satellites of Jupiter , men had to make an instrument which would create them . " In vain did Galileo try to save the great truths he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Grand-Duchess Christine , in which he argued that literal biblical interpretation should not be applied to science ; it was answered that such an argument only made his heresy more detestable ; that he was " worse than Luther or Calvin . " The war on the Copernican theory , which up to that time had been carried on quietly , now flamed forth . It was declared that the doctrine was proved false by the standing still of the sun for Joshua , by the declarations that " the foundations of the earth are fixed so firm that they can not be moved , " and that the sun " runneth about from one end of the heavens to the other . " 57 57 For principle points as given , see Libri , Histoire des Sciences mathematiques en Italie , vol. iv , p. 211 ; De Morgan , Paradoxes , p. 26 , for account of Father Clavius . It is interesting to know that Clavius , in his last years , acknowledged that " the whole system of the heavens is broken down , and must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ xv , p. 478 . See Th . Martin , Galilee , pp. 34 , 208 , and 266 ; also Heller , Geschichte der Physik , Stuttgart , 1882 , vol. i , p. 366 . For the original documents , see L'Epinois , pp.34 and 36 ; or better , Gebler 's careful edition of the trial ( Die Acten des Galileischen Processes , Stuttgart , 1877 ) , pp. 47 et seq . Martin 's translation seems somewhat too free . See also Gebler , Galileo Galilei , English translation , London , 1879 , pp. 76-78 ; also Reusch , Der Process Galilei 's und die Jesuiten , Bonn , 1879 , chaps . ix , x , xi . But the little telescope of Galileo still swept the heavens , and another revelation was announced  --  the mountains and valleys in the moon . This brought on another attack . It was declared that this , and the statement that the moon shines by light reflected from the sun , directly contradict the statement in Genesis that the moon is " a great light . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the moon in a religious picture in its usual position beneath the feet of the Blessed Virgin , outlined on its surface mountains and valleys ; this was denounced as a sacrilege logically resulting from the astronomer 's heresy . Still another struggle was aroused when the hated telescope revealed spots upon the sun , and their motion indicating the sun 's rotation . Monsignor Elci , head of the University of Pisa , forbade the astronomer Castelli to mention these spots to his students . Father Busaeus , at the University of Innspruck , forbade the astronomer Scheiner , who had also discovered the spots and proposed a SAFE explanation of them , to allow the new discovery to be known there . At the College of Douay and the University of Louvain this discovery was expressly placed under the ban , and this became the general rule among the Catholic universities and colleges of Europe . The Spanish universities were especially intolerant of this and similar ideas , and up to a recent period their presentation was strictly forbidden in the most important university of all  --  that of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , vol. iii . Such are the consequences of placing the instruction of men 's minds in the hands of those mainly absorbed in saving men 's souls . Nothing could be more in accordance with the idea recently put forth by sundry ecclesiastics , Catholic and Protestant , that the Church alone is empowered to promulgate scientific truth or direct university instruction . But science gained a victory here also . Observations of the solar spots were reported not only from Galileo in Italy , but from Fabricius in Holland . Father Scheiner then endeavoured to make the usual compromise between theology and science . He promulgated a pseudo-scientific theory , which only provoked derision . The war became more and more bitter . The Dominican Father Caccini preached a sermon from the text , " Ye men of Galilee , why stand ye gazing up into heaven ? " and this wretched pun upon the great astronomer 's name ushered in sharper weapons ; for , before Caccini ended , he insisted that " geometry is of the devil , " and that " mathematicians should be banished as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gave Caccini promotion . Father Lorini proved that Galileo 's doctrine was not only heretical but " atheistic , " and besought the Inquisition to intervene . The Bishop of Fiesole screamed in rage against the Copernican system , publicly insulted Galileo , and denounced him to the Grand-Duke . The Archbishop of Pisa secretly sought to entrap Galileo and deliver him to the Inquisition at Rome . The Archbishop of Florence solemnly condemned the new doctrines as unscriptural ; and Paul V , while petting Galileo , and inviting him as the greatest astronomer of the world to visit Rome , was secretly moving the Archbishop of Pisa to pick up evidence against the astronomer . But by far the most terrible champion who now appeared was Cardinal Bellarmin , one of the greatest theologians the world has known . He was earnest , sincere , and learned , but insisted on making science conform to Scripture . The weapons which men of Bellarmin 's stamp used were purely theological . They held up before the world the dreadful consequences which must result to Christian theology were the heavenly bodies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ earth . Their most tremendous dogmatic engine was the statement that " his pretended discovery vitiates the whole Christian plan of salvation . " Father Lecazre declared " it casts suspicion on the doctrine of the incarnation . " Others declared , " It upsets the whole basis of theology . If the earth is a planet , and only one among several planets , it can not be that any such great things have been done specially for it as the Christian doctrine teaches . If there are other planets , since God makes nothing in vain , they must be inhabited ; but how can their inhabitants be descended from Adam ? How can they trace back their origin to Noah 's ark ? How can they have been redeemed by the Saviour ? " Nor was this argument confined to the theologians of the Roman Church ; Melanchthon , Protestant as he was , had already used it in his attacks on Copernicus and his school . In addition to this prodigious theological engine of war there was kept up a fire of smaller artillery in the shape @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still more bitter , and some weapons used in it are worth examining . They are very easily examined , for they are to be found on all the battlefields of science ; but on that field they were used with more effect than on almost any other . These weapons are the epithets " infidel " and " atheist . " They have been used against almost every man who has ever done anything new for his fellow-men . The list of those who have been denounced as " infidel " and " atheist " includes almost all great men of science , general scholars , inventors , and philanthropists . The purest Christian life , the noblest Christian character , have not availed to shield combatants . Christians like Isaac Newton , Pascal , Locke , Milton , and even Fenelon and Howard , have had this weapon hurled against them . Of all proofs of the existence of a God , those of Descartes have been wrought most thoroughly into the minds of modern men ; yet the Protestant theologians of Holland sought to bring him to torture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Roman Catholic theologians of France thwarted him during his life and prevented any due honours to him after his death. 59 59 For various objectors and objections to Galileo by his contemporaries , see Libri , Histoire des Sciences mathematiques en Italie , vol. iv , p. 233 , 234 ; also Martin , Vie de Galilee . For Father Lecazre 's argument , see Flammarion , Mondes imaginaires et mondes reels , 6th ed. , pp. 315 , 316 . For Melanchthon 's argument , see his Initia in Opera , vol. iii , Halle , 1846 . These epithets can hardly be classed with civilized weapons . They are burning arrows ; they set fire to masses of popular prejudice , always obscuring the real question , sometimes destroying the attacking party . They are poisoned weapons . They pierce the hearts of loving women ; they alienate dear children ; they injure a man after life is ended , for they leave poisoned wounds in the hearts of those who loved him best  --  fears for his eternal salvation , dread of the Divine wrath upon him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ though often effective in vexing good men and in scaring good women , are somewhat blunted ; indeed , they not infrequently injure the assailants more than the assailed . So it was not in the days of Galileo ; they were then in all their sharpness and venom. 60 60 For curious exemplification of the way in which these weapons have been hurled , see lists of persons charged with " infidelity " and " atheism , " in the Dictionnaire des Athees. , Paris , 1800 ; also Lecky , History of Rationalism , vol. ii , p. 50 . For the case of Descartes , see Saisset , Descartes et ses Precurseurs , pp. 103 , 110 . For the facility with which the term " atheist " has been applied from the early Aryans down to believers in evolution , see Tylor , Primitive Culture , vol. i , p. 420 . Yet a baser warfare was waged by the Archbishop of Pisa . This man , whose cathedral derives its most enduring fame from Galileo 's deduction of a great natural law from the swinging lamp @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ noble mould of Borromeo and Fenelon and Cheverus . Sadly enough for the Church and humanity , he was simply a zealot and intriguer : he perfected the plan for entrapping the great astronomer . Galileo , after his discoveries had been denounced , had written to his friend Castelli and to the Grand-Duchess Christine two letters to show that his discoveries might be reconciled with Scripture . On a hint from the Inquisition at Rome , the archbishop sought to get hold of these letters and exhibit them as proofs that Galileo had uttered heretical views of theology and of Scripture , and thus to bring him into the clutch of the Inquisition . The archbishop begs Castelli , therefore , to let him see the original letter in the handwriting of Galileo . Castelli declines . The archbishop then , while , as is now revealed , writing constantly and bitterly to the Inquisition against Galileo , professes to Castelli the greatest admiration of Galileo 's genius and a sincere desire to know more of his discoveries . This not succeeding , the archbishop at last throws off the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to crush Galileo and to save him would be amusing were it not so fraught with evil . There were intrigues and counter-intrigues , plots and counter-plots , lying and spying ; and in the thickest of this seething , squabbling , screaming mass of priests , bishops , archbishops , and cardinals , appear two popes , Paul V and Urban VIII . It is most suggestive to see in this crisis of the Church , at the tomb of the prince of the apostles , on the eve of the greatest errors in Church policy the world has known , in all the intrigues and deliberations of these consecrated leaders of the Church , no more evidence of the guidance or presence of the Holy Spirit than in a caucus of New York politicians at Tammany Hall . But the opposing powers were too strong . In 1615 Galileo was summoned before the Inquisition at Rome , and the mine which had been so long preparing was sprung . Sundry theologians of the Inquisition having been ordered to examine two propositions which had been extracted from Galileo 's letters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about a month and rendered their unanimous decision as follows : " THE FIRST PROPOSITION , THAT THE SUN IS THE CENTRE AND DOES NOT REVOLVE ABOUT THE EARTH , IS FOOLISH , ABSURD , FALSE IN THEOLOGY , AND HERETICAL , BECAUSE EXPRESSLY CONTRARY TO HOLY SCRIPTURE " ; AND " THE SECOND PROPOSITION , THAT THE EARTH IS NOT THE CENTRE BUT REVOLVES ABOUT THE SUN , IS ABSURD , FALSE IN PHILOSOPHY , AND , FROM A THEOLOGICAL POINT OF VIEW AT LEAST , OPPOSED TO THE TRUE FAITH . " The Pope himself , Paul V , now intervened again : he ordered that Galileo be brought before the Inquisition . Then the greatest man of science in that age was brought face to face with the greatest theologian  --  Galileo was confronted by Bellarmin . Bellarmin shows Galileo the error of his opinion and orders him to renounce it . De Lauda , fortified by a letter from the Pope , gives orders that the astronomer be placed in the dungeons of the Inquisition should he refuse to yield . Bellarmin now commands Galileo , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whole Congregation of the Holy Office , to relinquish altogether the opinion that the sun is the centre of the world and immovable , and that the earth moves , nor henceforth to hold , teach , or defend it in any way whatsoever , verbally or in writing . " This injunction Galileo acquiesces in and promises to obey. 61 61 I am aware that the theory proposed by Wohwill and developed by Gebler denied that this promise was ever made by Galileo , and holds that the passage was a forgery devised later by the Church rulers to justify the proceedings of 1632 and 1644 . This would make the conduct of the Church worse , but authorities as eminent consider the charge not proved . A careful examination of the documents seems to disprove it . This was on the 26th of February , 1616 . About a fortnight later the Congregation of the Index , moved thereto , as the letters and documents now brought to light show , by Pope Paul V , solemnly rendered a decree that " THE DOCTRINE OF THE DOUBLE MOTION OF @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ FALSE , AND ENTIRELY CONTRARY TO HOLY SCRIPTURE " ; and that this opinion must neither be taught nor advocated . The same decree condemned all writings of Copernicus and " ALL WRITINGS WHICH AFFIRM THE MOTION OF THE EARTH . " The great work of Copernicus was interdicted until corrected in accordance with the views of the Inquisition ; and the works of Galileo and Kepler , though not mentioned by name at that time , were included among those implicitly condemned as " affirming the motion of the earth . " The condemnations were inscribed upon the Index ; and , finally , the papacy committed itself as an infallible judge and teacher to the world by prefixing to the Index the usual papal bull giving its monitions the most solemn papal sanction . To teach or even read the works denounced or passages condemned was to risk persecution in this world and damnation in the next . Science had apparently lost the decisive battle . For a time after this judgment Galileo remained in Rome , apparently hoping to find some way out of this difficulty ; but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him by ecclesiastics , and , being recalled to Florence , remained in his hermitage near the city in silence , working steadily , indeed , but not publishing anything save by private letters to friends in various parts of Europe . But at last a better vista seemed to open for him . Cardinal Barberini , who had seemed liberal and friendly , became pope under the name of Urban VIII . Galileo at this conceived new hopes , and allowed his continued allegiance to the Copernican system to be known . New troubles ensued . Galileo was induced to visit Rome again , and Pope Urban tried to cajole him into silence , personally taking the trouble to show him his errors by argument . Other opponents were less considerate , for works appeared attacking his ideas  --  works all the more unmanly , since their authors knew that Galileo was restrained by force from defending himself . Then , too , as if to accumulate proofs of the unfitness of the Church to take charge of advanced instruction , his salary as a professor at the University of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ began . Just as the Archbishop of Pisa some years before had tried to betray him with honeyed words to the Inquisition , so now Father Grassi tried it , and , after various attempts to draw him out by flattery , suddenly denounced his scientific ideas as " leading to a denial of the Real Presence in the Eucharist . " For the final assault upon him a park of heavy artillery was at last wheeled into place . It may be seen on all the scientific battlefields . It consists of general denunciation ; and in 1631 Father Melchior Inchofer , of the Jesuits , brought his artillery to bear upon Galileo with this declaration : " The opinion of the earth 's motion is of all heresies the most abominable , the most pernicious , the most scandalous ; the immovability of the earth is thrice sacred ; argument against the immortality of the soul , the existence of God , and the incarnation , should be tolerated sooner than an argument to prove that the earth moves . " From the other end of Europe came a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Antwerp , the noted theologian Fromundus gave forth his famous treatise , the Ant-Aristarclius . Its very title-page was a contemptuous insult to the memory of Copernicus , since it paraded the assumption that the new truth was only an exploded theory of a pagan astronomer . Fromundus declares that " sacred Scripture fights against the Copernicans . " To prove that the sun revolves about the earth , he cites the passage in the Psalms which speaks of the sun " which cometh forth as a bridegroom out of his chamber . " To prove that the earth stands still , he quotes a passage from Ecclesiastes , " The earth standeth fast forever . " To show the utter futility of the Copernican theory , he declares that , if it were true , " the wind would constantly blow from the east " ; and that " buildings and the earth itself would fly off with such a rapid motion that men would have to be provided with claws like cats to enable them to hold fast to the earth 's surface . " Greatest weapon of all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and St. Thomas Aquinas , a demonstration from theology and science combined , that the earth MUST stand in the centre , and that the sun MUST revolve about it. 62 Nor was it merely fanatics who opposed the truth revealed by Copernicus ; such strong men as Jean Bodin , in France , and Sir Thomas Browne , in England , declared against it as evidently contrary to Holy Scripture . 62 For Father Inchofer 's attack , see his Tractatus Syllepticus , cited in Galileo 's letter to Deodati , July 28 , 1634 . For Fromundus 's more famous attack , see his Ant-Aristarchus , already cited , passim , but especially the heading of chap . vi , and the argument in chapters x and xi . A copy of this work may be found in the Astor Library at New York , and another in the White Library at Cornell University . For interesting references to one of Fromundus 's arguments , showing , by a mixture of mathematics and theology , that the earth is the centre of the universe , see Quetelet , Histoire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ p. 170 ; also Madler , Geschichte der Astronomie , vol. i , p. 274 . For Bodin 's opposition to the Copernican theory , see Hallam , Literature of Europe ; also Lecky . For Sir Thomas Brown , see his Vulgar and Common Errors , book iv , chap . v ; and as to the real reason for his disbelief in the Copernican view , see Dr. Johnson 's preface to his Life of Browne , vol. i , p. xix , of his collected works . IV . VICTORY OF THE CHURCH OVER GALILEO . While news of triumphant attacks upon him and upon the truth he had established were coming in from all parts of Europe , Galileo prepared a careful treatise in the form of a dialogue , exhibiting the arguments for and against the Copernican and Ptolemaic systems , and offered to submit to any conditions that the Church tribunals might impose , if they would allow it to be printed . At last , after discussions which extended through eight years , they consented , imposing a humiliating condition  --  a preface written @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Sacred Palace , and signed by Galileo , in which the Copernican theory was virtually exhibited as a play of the imagination , and not at all as opposed to the Ptolemaic doctrine reasserted in 1616 by the Inquisition under the direction of Pope Paul V. This new work of Galileo  --  the Dialogo  --  appeared in 1632 , and met with prodigious success . It put new weapons into the hands of the supporters of the Copernican theory . The pious preface was laughed at from one end of Europe to the other . This roused the enemy ; the Jesuits , Dominicans , and the great majority of the clergy returned to the attack more violent than ever , and in the midst of them stood Pope Urban VIII , most bitter of all . His whole power was now thrown against Galileo . He was touched in two points : first , in his personal vanity , for Galileo had put the Pope 's arguments into the mouth of one of the persons in the dialogue and their refutation into the mouth of another ; but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feelings . Again and again His Holiness insisted to all comers on the absolute and specific declarations of Holy Scripture , which prove that the sun and heavenly bodies revolve about the earth , and declared that to gainsay them is simply to dispute revelation . Certainly , if one ecclesiastic more than another ever seemed NOT under the care of the Spirit of Truth , it was Urban VIII in all this matter . Herein was one of the greatest pieces of ill fortune that has ever befallen the older Church . Had Pope Urban been broad-minded and tolerant like Benedict XIV , or had he been taught moderation by adversity like Pius VII , or had he possessed the large scholarly qualities of Leo XIII , now reigning , the vast scandal of the Galileo case would never have burdened the Church : instead of devising endless quibbles and special pleadings to escape responsibility for this colossal blunder , its defenders could have claimed forever for the Church the glory of fearlessly initiating a great epoch in human thought . But it was not so to be . Urban @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the house of Barberini , and therefore doubly angry that his arguments had been publicly controverted . The opening strategy of Galileo 's enemies was to forbid the sale of his work ; but this was soon seen to be unavailing , for the first edition had already been spread throughout Europe . Urban now became more angry than ever , and both Galileo and his works were placed in the hands of the Inquisition . In vain did the good Benedictine Castelli urge that Galileo was entirely respectful to the Church ; in vain did he insist that " nothing that can be done can now hinder the earth from revolving . " He was dismissed in disgrace , and Galileo was forced to appear in the presence of the dread tribunal without defender or adviser . There , as was so long concealed , but as is now fully revealed , he was menaced with torture again and again by express order of Pope Urban , and , as is also thoroughly established from the trial documents themselves , forced to abjure under threats , and subjected to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in this whole matter to the papal authority . All the long series of attempts made in the supposed interest of the Church to mystify these transactions have at last failed . The world knows now that Galileo was subjected certainly to indignity , to imprisonment , and to threats equivalent to torture , and was at last forced to pronounce publicly and on his knees his recantation , as follows : " I , Galileo , being in my seventieth year , being a prisoner and on my knees , and before your Eminences , having before my eyes the Holy Gospel , which I touch with my hands , abjure , curse , and detest the error and the heresy of the movement of the earth . " 63 63 For various utterances of Pope Urban against the Copernican theory at this period , see extracts from the original documents given by Gebler . For punishment of those who had shown some favor to Galileo , see various citations , and especially those from the Vatican manuscript , Gebler , p. 216 . As to the text of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ etc. , Venice , 1644 ; and for a discussion regarding its publication , see Favaro , Miscellanea Galileana , p. 804 . It is not probable that torture in the ordinary sense was administered to Galileo , though it was threatened . See Th . Martin , Vie de Galilee , for a fair summing up of the case . He was vanquished indeed , for he had been forced , in the face of all coming ages , to perjure himself . To complete his dishonour , he was obliged to swear that he would denounce to the Inquisition any other man of science whom he should discover to be supporting the " heresy of the motion of the earth . " Many have wondered at this abjuration , and on account of it have denied to Galileo the title of martyr . But let such gainsayers consider the circumstances . Here was an old man  --  one who had reached the allotted threescore years and ten  --  broken with disappointments , worn out with labours and cares , dragged from Florence to Rome , with the threat from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " brought in chains " ; sick in body and mind , given over to his oppressors by the Grand-Duke who ought to have protected him , and on his arrival in Rome threatened with torture . What the Inquisition was he knew well . He could remember as but of yesterday the burning of Giordano Bruno in that same city for scientific and philosophic heresy ; he could remember , too , that only eight years before this very time De Dominis , Archbishop of Spalatro , having been seized by the Inquisition for scientific and other heresies , had died in a dungeon , and that his body and his writings had been publicly burned . To the end of his life  --  nay , after his life was ended  --  the persecution of Galileo was continued . He was kept in exile from his family , from his friends , from his noble employments , and was held rigidly to his promise not to speak of his theory . When , in the midst of intense bodily sufferings from disease , and mental sufferings from calamities in his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ met with threats of committal to a dungeon . When , at last , a special commission had reported to the ecclesiastical authorities that he had become blind and wasted with disease and sorrow , he was allowed a little more liberty , but that little was hampered by close surveillance . He was forced to bear contemptible attacks on himself and on his works in silence ; to see the men who had befriended him severely punished ; Father Castelli banished ; Ricciardi , the Master of the Sacred Palace , and Ciampoli , the papal secretary , thrown out of their positions by Pope Urban , and the Inquisitor at Florence reprimanded for having given permission to print Galileo 's work . He lived to see the truths he had established carefully weeded out from all the Church colleges and universities in Europe ; and , when in a scientific work he happened to be spoken of as " renowned , " the Inquisition ordered the substitution of the word " notorious . " 64 64 For the substitution of the word " notorious " for " renowned " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . And now measures were taken to complete the destruction of the Copernican theory , with Galileo 's proofs of it . On the 16th of June , 1633 , the Holy Congregation , with the permission of the reigning Pope , ordered the sentence upon Galileo , and his recantation , to be sent to all the papal nuncios throughout Europe , as well as to all archbishops , bishops , and inquisitors in Italy and this document gave orders that the sentence and abjuration be made known " to your vicars , that you and all professors of philosophy and mathematics may have knowledge of it , that they may know why we proceeded against the said Galileo , and recognise the gravity of his error , in order that they may avoid it , and thus not incur the penalties which they would have to suffer in case they fell into the same . " 65 65 For a copy of this document , see Gebler , p. 269 . As to the spread of this and similar documents notifying Europe of Galileo 's condemnation , see Favaro @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the processors of mathematics and astronomy in various universities of Europe were assembled and these documents were read to them . To the theological authorities this gave great satisfaction . The Rector of the University of Douay , referring to the opinion of Galileo , wrote to the papal nuncio at Brussels : " The professors of our university are so opposed to this fanatical opinion that they have always held that it must be banished from the schools . In our English college at Douay this paradox has never been approved and never will be . " Still another step was taken : the Inquisitors were ordered , especially in Italy , not to permit the publication of a new edition of any of Galileo 's works , or of any similar writings . On the other hand , theologians were urged , now that Copernicus and Galileo and Kepler were silenced , to reply to them with tongue and pen . Europe was flooded with these theological refutations of the Copernican system . To make all complete , there was prefixed to the Index of the Church , forbidding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " a bull signed by the reigning Pope , which , by virtue of his infallibility as a divinely guided teacher in matters of faith and morals , clinched this condemnation into the consciences of the whole Christian world . From the mass of books which appeared under the auspices of the Church immediately after the condemnation of Galileo , for the purpose of rooting out every vestige of the hated Copernican theory from the mind of the world , two may be taken as typical . The first of these was a work by Scipio Chiaramonti , dedicated to Cardinal Barberini . Among his arguments against the double motion of the earth may be cited the following : " Animals , which move , have limbs and muscles ; the earth has no limbs or muscles , therefore it does not move . It is angels who make Saturn , Jupiter , the sun , etc. , turn round . If the earth revolves , it must also have an angel in the centre to set it in motion ; but only devils live there ; it would therefore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ .... " The planets , the sun , the fixed stars , all belong to one species  --  namely , that of stars . It seems , therefore , to be a grievous wrong to place the earth , which is a sink of impurity , among these heavenly bodies , which are pure and divine things . " The next , which I select from the mass of similar works , is the Anticopernicus Catholicus of Polacco . It was intended to deal a finishing stroke at Galileo 's heresy . In this it is declared : " The Scripture always represents the earth as at rest , and the sun and moon as in motion ; or , if these latter bodies are ever represented as at rest , Scripture represents this as the result of a great miracle .... " These writings must be prohibited , because they teach certain principles about the position and motion of the terrestrial globe repugnant to Holy Scripture and to the Catholic interpretation of it , not as hypotheses but as established facts .... " Speaking of Galileo 's book , Polacco @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that , " when this was shown to the Inquisition , Galileo was thrown into prison and was compelled to utterly abjure the baseness of this erroneous dogma . " As to the authority of the cardinals in their decree , Polacco asserts that , since they are the " Pope 's Council " and his " brothers , " their work is one , except that the Pope is favoured with special divine enlightenment . Having shown that the authority of the Scriptures , of popes , and of cardinals is against the new astronomy , he gives a refutation based on physics . He asks : " If we concede the motion of the earth , why is it that an arrow shot into the air falls back to the same spot , while the earth and all things on it have in the meantime moved very rapidly toward the east ? Who does not see that great confusion would result from this motion ? " Next he argues from metaphysics , as follows : " The Copernican theory of the earth 's motion is against the nature of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cold but contains in itself the principle of cold ; but cold is opposed to motion , and even destroys it  --  as is evident in animals , which become motionless when they become cold . " Finally , he clinches all with a piece of theological reasoning , as follows : " Since it can certainly be gathered from Scripture that the heavens move above the earth , and since a circular motion requires something immovable around which to move , ... the earth is at the centre of the universe . " 66 66 For Chiaramonti 's book and selections given , see Gebler as above , p. 271 . For Polacco , see his work as cited , especially Assertiones i , ii , vii , xi , xiii , lxxiii , clcccvii , and others . The work is in the White Library at Cornell University . The date of it is 1644 . But any sketch of the warfare between theology and science in this field would be incomplete without some reference to the treatment of Galileo after his death . He had begged to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ request was denied . His friends wished to erect a monument over him ; this , too , was refused . Pope Urban said to the ambassador Niccolini that " it would be an evil example for the world if such honours were rendered to a man who had been brought before the Roman Inquisition for an opinion so false and erroneous ; who had communicated it to many others , and who had given so great a scandal to Christendom . " In accordance , therefore , with the wish of the Pope and the orders of the Inquisition , Galileo was buried ignobly , apart from his family , without fitting ceremony , without monument , without epitaph . Not until forty years after did Pierrozzi dare write an inscription to be placed above his bones ; not until a hundred years after did Nelli dare transfer his remains to a suitable position in Santa Croce , and erect a monument above them . Even then the old conscientious hostility burst forth : the Inquisition was besought to prevent such honours to " a man condemned for notorious errors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be placed above him which had not been submitted to its censorship . Nor has that old conscientious consistency in hatred yet fully relented : hardly a generation since has not seen some ecclesiastic , like Marini or De Bonald or Rallaye or De Gabriac , suppressing evidence , or torturing expressions , or inventing theories to blacken the memory of Galileo and save the reputation of the Church . Nay , more : there are school histories , widely used , which , in the supposed interest of the Church , misrepresent in the grossest manner all these transactions in which Galileo was concerned . Sancta simplicitas ! The Church has no worse enemies than those who devise and teach these perversions . They are simply rooting out , in the long run , from the minds of the more thoughtful scholars , respect for the great organization which such writings are supposed to serve. 67 67 For the persecutions of Galileo 's memory after his death , see Gebler and Wohwill , but especially Th . Martin , p. 243 and chaps . ix and x . For @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the slanderous theories invented against Galileo , see Martin , final chapters and appendix . Both these authors are devoted to the Church , but unlike Monsignor Marini , are too upright to resort to the pious fraud of suppressing documents or interpolating pretended facts . The Protestant Church was hardly less energetic against this new astronomy than the mother Church . The sacred science of the first Lutheran Reformers was transmitted as a precious legacy , and in the next century was made much of by Calovius . His great learning and determined orthodoxy gave him the Lutheran leadership . Utterly refusing to look at ascertained facts , he cited the turning back of the shadow upon King Hezekiah 's dial and the standing still of the sun for Joshua , denied the movement of the earth , and denounced the whole new view as clearly opposed to Scripture . To this day his arguments are repeated by sundry orthodox leaders of American Lutheranism . As to the other branches of the Reformed Church , we have already seen how Calvinists , Anglicans , and , indeed , Protestant sectarians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , see Zoeckler , Geschichte , vol. i , pp. 684 and 763 . For Calvin and Turretin , see Shields , The Final Philosophy , pp. 60 , 61 . In England , among the strict churchmen , the great Dr. South denounced the Royal Society as " irreligious , " and among the Puritans the eminent John Owen declared that Newton 's discoveries were " built on fallible phenomena and advanced by many arbitrary presumptions against evident testimonies of Scripture . " Even Milton seems to have hesitated between the two systems . At the beginning of the eighth book of Paradise Lost he makes Adam state the difficulties of the Ptolemaic system , and then brings forward an angel to make the usual orthodox answers . Later , Milton seems to lean toward the Copernican theory , for , referring to the earth , he says : " Or she from west her silent course advance With inoffensive pace , that spinning sleeps On her soft axle , while she faces even And bears thee soft with the smooth air along . " English orthodoxy continued to assert @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , published his Moses ' Principia , a system of philosophy in which he sought to build up a complete physical system of the universe from the Bible . In this he assaulted the Newtonian theory as " atheistic , " and led the way for similar attacks by such Church teachers as Horne , Duncan Forbes , and Jones of Nayland . But one far greater than these involved himself in this view . That same limitation of his reason by the simple statements of Scripture which led John Wesley to declare that , " unless witchcraft is true , nothing in the Bible is true , " led him , while giving up the Ptolemaic theory and accepting in a general way the Copernican , to suspect the demonstrations of Newton . Happily , his inborn nobility of character lifted him above any bitterness or persecuting spirit , or any imposition of doctrinal tests which could prevent those who came after him from finding their way to the truth . But in the midst of this vast expanse of theologic error signs of right reason began to appear , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cotton Mather , bitter as was his orthodoxy regarding witchcraft , accepted , in 1721 , the modern astronomy fully , with all its consequences . In the following year came an even more striking evidence that the new scientific ideas were making their way in England . In 1722 Thomas Burnet published the sixth edition of his Sacred Theory of the Earth . In this he argues , as usual , to establish the scriptural doctrine of the earth 's stability ; but in his preface he sounds a remarkable warning . He mentions the great mistake into which St. Augustine led the Church regarding the doctrine of the antipodes , and says , " If within a few years or in the next generation it should prove as certain and demonstrable that the earth is moved , as it is now that there are antipodes , those that have been zealous against it , and engaged the Scripture in the controversy , would have the same reason to repent of their forwardness that St. Augustine would now , if he were still alive . " Fortunately , too , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Copernican ideas as the older Church had enjoyed . Yet there were some things in its warfare against science even more indefensible . In 1772 the famous English expedition for scientific discovery sailed from England under Captain Cook . Greatest by far of all the scientific authorities chosen to accompany it was Dr. Priestley . Sir Joseph Banks had especially invited him . But the clergy of Oxford and Cambridge interfered . Priestley was considered unsound in his views of the Trinity ; it was evidently suspected that this might vitiate his astronomical observations ; he was rejected , and the expedition crippled . The orthodox view of astronomy lingered on in other branches of the Protestant Church . In Germany even Leibnitz attacked the Newtonian theory of gravitation on theological grounds , though he found some little consolation in thinking that it might be used to support the Lutheran doctrine of consubstantiation . In Holland the Calvinistic Church was at first strenuous against the whole new system , but we possess a comical proof that Calvinism even in its strongholds was powerless against it ; for in 1642 Blaer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and , in order to be on the safe side , devoted one part of his work to the Ptolemaic and the other to the Copernican scheme , leaving the benevolent reader to take his choice. 69 69 For the attitude of Leibnetz , Hutchinson , and the others named toward the Newtonian theory , see Lecky , History of England in the Eighteenth Century , chap . ix . For John Wesley , see his Compendium of Natural Philosophy , being a Survey of the Wisdom of God in the Creation , London , 1784 . See also Leslie Stephen , Eighteenth Century , vol. ii , p. 413 . For Owen , see his Works , vol. xix , p. 310 . For Cotton Mather 's view , see The Christian Philosopher , London , 1721 , especially pp. 16 and 17 . For the case of Priestley , see Weld , History of the Royal Society , vol. ii , p. 56 , for the facts and the admirable letter of Priestley upon this rejection . For Blaer , see his L'Usage des Globes , Amsterdam , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Protestant Church been wanting in these latter days . The attempt in the Church of England , in 1864 , to fetter science , which was brought to ridicule by Herschel , Bowring , and De Morgan ; the assemblage of Lutheran clergy at Berlin , in 1868 , to protest against " science falsely so called , " are examples of these . Fortunately , to the latter came Pastor Knak , and his denunciations of the Copernican theory as absolutely incompatible with a belief in the Bible , dissolved the whole assemblage in ridicule . In its recent dealings with modern astronomy the wisdom of the Catholic Church in the more civilized countries has prevented its yielding to some astounding errors into which one part of the Protestant Church has fallen heedlessly . Though various leaders in the older Church have committed the absurd error of allowing a text-book and sundry review articles to appear which grossly misstate the Galileo episode , with the certainty of ultimately undermining confidence in her teachings among her more thoughtful young men , she has kept clear of the folly of continuing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sacred books , to an adoption of the Ptolemaic theory . Not so with American Lutheranism . In 1873 was published in St. Louis , at the publishing house of the Lutheran Synod of Missouri , a work entitled Astronomische Unterredung , the author being well known as a late president of a Lutheran Teachers ' Seminary . No attack on the whole modern system of astronomy could be more bitter . On the first page of the introduction the author , after stating the two theories , asks , " Which is right ? " and says : " It would be very simple to me which is right , if it were only a question of human import . But the wise and truthful God has expressed himself on this matter in the Bible . The entire Holy Scripture settles the question that the earth is the principal body ( Hauptkorper ) of the universe , that it stands fixed , and that sun and moon only serve to light it . " The author then goes on to show from Scripture the folly , not only of Copernicus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ astronomers in more recent times . He declares : " Let no one understand me as inquiring first where truth is to be found  --  in the Bible or with the astronomers . No ; I know that beforehand  --  that my God never lies , never makes a mistake ; out of his mouth comes only truth , when he speaks of the structure of the universe , of the earth , sun , moon , and stars .... " Because the truth of the Holy Scripture is involved in this , therefore the above question is of the highest importance to me .... Scientists and others lean upon the miserable reed ( Rohrstab ) that God teaches only the order of salvation , but not the order of the universe . " Very noteworthy is the fact that this late survival of an ancient belief based upon text-worship is found , not in the teachings of any zealous priest of the mother Church , but in those of an eminent professor in that branch of Protestantism which claims special enlightenment. 70 70 For the amusing details of the attempt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the way in which it was met , see De Morgan , Paradoxes , p. 42 . For Pastor Knak and his associates , see the Revue des Deux Mondes , 1868 . Of the recent Lutheran works against the Copernican astronomy , see especially Astronomische Unterredung zwischen einem Liebhaber der Astronomie und mehreren beruhmten Astronomer der Neuzeit , by J. C. W. L. , St. Louis , 1873 . Nor has the warfare against the dead champions of science been carried on by the older Church alone . On the 10th of May , 1859 , Alexander von Humboldt was buried . His labours had been among the glories of the century , and his funeral was one of the most imposing that Berlin had ever seen . Among those who honoured themselves by their presence was the prince regent , afterward the Emperor William I ; but of the clergy it was observed that none were present save the officiating clergyman and a few regarded as unorthodox. 71 71 See Bruhns and Lassell , Life of Humboldt , London , 1873 , vol. ii , p. 411 . V. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the sequel of the Galileo case . Having gained their victory over Galileo , living and dead , having used it to scare into submission the professors of astronomy throughout Europe , conscientious churchmen exulted . Loud was their rejoicing that the " heresy , " the " infidelity " the " atheism " involved in believing that the earth revolves about its axis and moves around the sun had been crushed by the great tribunal of the Church , acting in strict obedience to the expressed will of one Pope and the written order of another . As we have seen , all books teaching this hated belief were put upon the Index of books forbidden to Christians , and that Index was prefaced by a bull enforcing this condemnation upon the consciences of the faithful throughout the world , and signed by the reigning Pope . The losses to the world during this complete triumph of theology were even more serious than at first appears : one must especially be mentioned . There was then in Europe one of the greatest thinkers ever given to mankind  --  Rene @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they bore a rich fruitage of truth . He had already done a vast work . His theory of vortices  --  assuming a uniform material regulated by physical laws  --  as the beginning of the visible universe , though it was but a provisional hypothesis , had ended the whole old theory of the heavens with the vaulted firmament and the direction of the planetary movements by angels , which even Kepler had allowed . The scientific warriors had stirred new life in him , and he was working over and summing up in his mighty mind all the researches of his time . The result would have made an epoch in history . His aim was to combine all knowledge and thought into a Treatise on the World , and in view of this he gave eleven years to the study of anatomy alone . But the fate of Galileo robbed him of all hope , of all courage ; the battle seemed lost ; he gave up his great plan forever. 72 72 For Descartes 's discouragement , see Humboldt , Cosmos , London , 1851 , vol iii @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , English translation , vol. i , pp. 248 , 249 , where the letters of Descartes are given , showing his despair , and the relinquishment of his best thoughts and works in order to preserve peace with the Church ; also Saisset , Descartes et ses Precurseurs , pp. 100 et seq. ; also Jolly , Histoire du Mouvement intellectuel au XVI Siecle , vol. i , p. 390 . But ere long it was seen that this triumph of the Church was in reality a prodigious defeat . From all sides came proofs that Copernicus and Galileo were right ; and although Pope Urban and the inquisition held Galileo in strict seclusion , forbidding him even to SPEAK regarding the double motion of the earth ; and although this condemnation of " all books which affirm the motion of the earth " was kept on the Index ; and although the papal bull still bound the Index and the condemnations in it on the consciences of the faithful ; and although colleges and universities under Church control were compelled to teach the old doctrine  --  it was seen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was a disaster to the victors . New champions pressed on . Campanella , full of vagaries as he was , wrote his Apology for Galileo , though for that and other heresies , religious , and political , he seven times underwent torture . And Kepler comes : he leads science on to greater victories . Copernicus , great as he was , could not disentangle scientific reasoning entirely from the theological bias : the doctrines of Aristotle and Thomas Aquinas as to the necessary superiority of the circle had vitiated the minor features of his system , and left breaches in it through which the enemy was not slow to enter ; but Kepler sees these errors , and by wonderful genius and vigour he gives to the world the three laws which bear his name , and this fortress of science is complete . He thinks and speaks as one inspired . His battle is severe . He is solemnly warned by the Protestant Consistory of Stuttgart " not to throw Christ 's kingdom into confusion with his silly fancies , " and as solemnly ordered to " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " : he is sometimes abused , sometimes ridiculed , sometimes imprisoned . Protestants in Styria and Wurtemberg , Catholics in Austria and Bohemia , press upon him but Newton , Halley , Bradley , and other great astronomers follow , and to science remains the victory. 73 73 For Campanella , see Amabile , Fra Tommaso Campanella , Naples , 1882 , especially vol. iii ; also Libri , vol. iv , pp. 149 et seq . Fromundus , speaking of Kepler 's explanation , says , " Vix teneo ebullientem risum . " This is almost equal to the New York Church Journal , speaking of John Stuart Mill as " that small sciolist , " and of the preface to Dr. Draper 's great work as " chippering . " How a journal , generally so fair in its treatment of such subjects , can condescend to such weapons is one of the wonders of modern journalism . For the persecution of Kepler , see Heller , Geschichte der Physik , vol. i , pp. 281 et seq ; also Reuschle , Kepler und die Astronomie , Frankfurt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There is a poetic justice in the fact that these two last-named books come from Wurtemberg professors . See also The New-Englander for March , 1884 , p. 178 . Yet this did not end the war . During the seventeenth century , in France , after all the splendid proofs added by Kepler , no one dared openly teach the Copernican theory , and Cassini , the great astronomer , never declared for it . In 1672 the Jesuit Father Riccioli declared that there were precisely forty-nine arguments for the Copernican theory and seventy-seven against it . Even after the beginning of the eighteenth century  --  long after the demonstrations of Sir Isaac Newton  --  Bossuet , the great Bishop of Meaux , the foremost theologian that France has ever produced , declared it contrary to Scripture . Nor did matters seem to improve rapidly during that century . In England , John Hutchinson , as we have seen , published in 1724 his Moses ' Principia maintaining that the Hebrew Scriptures are a perfect system of natural philosophy , and are opposed to the Newtonian system of gravitation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was followed by a long list of noted men in the Church . In France , two eminent mathematicians published in 1748 an edition of Newton 's Principia ; but , in order to avert ecclesiastical censure , they felt obliged to prefix to it a statement absolutely false . Three years later , Boscovich , the great mathematician of the Jesuits , used these words : " As for me , full of respect for the Holy Scriptures and the decree of the Holy Inquisition , I regard the earth as immovable ; nevertheless , for simplicity in explanation I will argue as if the earth moves ; for it is proved that of the two hypotheses the appearances favour this idea . " In Germany , especially in the Protestant part of it , the war was even more bitter , and it lasted through the first half of the eighteenth century . Eminent Lutheran doctors of divinity flooded the country with treatises to prove that the Copernican theory could not be reconciled with Scripture . In the theological seminaries and in many of the universities where clerical influence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and yet at the middle of the century we find some of the clearest-headed of them aware of the fact that their cause//                     