@@751314

txt //t does is due always to radical causes  --  its history will immediately make known to us the cause of the change , and point out unmistakably its origin and source . Why is it , for instance , that the French nation , after having lived for near a thousand years under a single dynasty , can not now find a government agreeable to its modern aspirations ? It is insufficient to ascribe the fact to the fickleness of the French temper . During ten centuries no European nation has been more uniform and more attached to its government . If to-day the case is altogether reversed , the fact can not be explained except by a radical change in the character of the nation . Firmly fixed by its own national determination of purpose and by the deep studies of the Middle Ages  --  nowhere more remarkable than in Paris , which was at that time the centre of the activity of Catholic Europe  --  the French mind , first thrown by Protestantism into the vortex of controversy , gradually declined to the consideration of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long-received convictions , it abandoned itself to the ever-shifting delusions of opinions and theories , which led finally to skepticism and unbelief in every branch of knowledge , even the most necessary to the happiness of any community of men . Other causes , no doubt , might also be assigned for the remarkable change now under our consideration . The one we have pointed out was the chief . To the same causes , acting now on a larger scale throughout Europe , we ascribe the same radical changes which we see taking place in the various nations composing it : every thing brought everywhere in question ; the mind of all unsettled ; a real anarchy of intellect spreading wider and wider even in countries which until now had stood firm against it . Hence constant revolutions unheard of hitherto ; nothing stable ; and men expecting with awe a more frightful and radical overturning still of every thing that makes life valuable and dear . Are not these tragic convulsions the black and spotted types wherein we read the altered character of modern nations ; are they not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ These considerations , which might be indefinitely prolonged , show the truth of the phrase of Joseph de Maistre that " all nations manifest a particular and distinctive character , which deserves to be attentively considered . " The fact is , in this kind of study is contained the only possible philosophy of history for modern times . With respect to ages that have passed away , to nations which have run their full course , a nobler study is possible  --  the more so because inspired writers have traced the way . Thus Bossuet wrote his celebrated " Discours . " But he stopped wisely at the coming of our Lord . As to the events anterior to that great epoch , he spoke often like a prophet of ancient times ; he seemed at times to be initiated in the designs of God himself . And , in truth , he had them traced by the very Spirit of God ; and , lifted by his elevated mind to the level of those sublime thoughts , he had only to touch them with the magic of his style @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ except to rehearse the well-known facts of modern history , whose secret is not yet revealed , because their development is still being worked out , and no conclusion has been reached which might furnish the key to the whole . There remains , therefore , but one thing to do : to consider each nation apart , and read its character in its history . Should this be done for all , the only practical philosophy of modern history would be written . For then we should have accomplished morally for men what , in the physical order , zoologists accomplish for the immense number of living beings which God has spread over the surface of the earth . They might be classified according to a certain order of the ascending or descending moral scale . We could judge them rightly , conformably with the standard of right or wrong , which is in the absolute possession of the Christian conscience . Brilliant but baneful qualities would no longer impose on the credulity of mankind , and men would not be led astray in their judgments by the rule of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they form and inculcate on their readers of the worth of some nations , and the insignificance or even odiousness of others . In the impossibility under which we labor of penetrating , at the present time , the real designs of Providence with respect to the various races of men , so great an undertaking , embracing the principal , if not all , modern races , would be one of the most useful efforts of human genius for the spread of truth and virtue among men . Our purport is not of such vast import . We shall take in these pages for the object of our study one of the smallest and , apparently , most insignificant nations of modern Europe  --  the Irish . For several ages they have lost even what generally constitutes the basis of nationality , self-government ; yet they have preserved their individuality as strongly marked as though they were still ruled by the O'Neill dynasty . And we may here remark that the number of a people and the size of its territory have absolutely no bearing on the estimate which we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the Chinese are the most interesting and commendable nation on the surface of the globe ? They are certainly the most ancient and most populous ; their code of precise and formal morality is the most exact and clear that philosophers could ever dictate , and succeed in giving as law to a great people . That code has been followed during a long series of ages . Most discoveries of modern European science were known to them long before they were found out among us ; agriculture , that first of arts , which most economists consider as the great test whereby to judge of the worth of a nation , is and always has been carried by them to a perfection unknown to us . Yet , the smallest European nationality is , in truth , more interesting and instructive than the vast Celestial Empire can ever be  --  whose long annals are all compassed within a few hundred pages of a frigid narrative , void of life , and altogether void of soul . But why do we select , among so many others , the Irish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ little influence , whose history occupies only a few lines in the general annals of the world , and whose very ownership has rested in the hands of foreigners for centuries ? We select it , first , because it is and always has been thoroughly Catholic , from the day when it first embraced Christianity ; and this , under the circumstances , we take to be the best proof , not only of supreme good sense , but , moreover , of an elevated , even a sublime character . In their martyrdom of three centuries , the Irish have displayed the greatness of soul of a Polycarp , and the simplicity of an Agnes . And the Catholicity which they have always professed has been , from the beginning , of a thorough and uncompromising character . All modern European nations , it is true , have had their birth in the bosom of the Church . She had nursed them all , educated them all , made them all what they were , when they began to think of emancipating themselves from her ; and the Catholic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ essence , is supernatural ; the creed of the apostles , the sacramental system ; the very history of Christianity , transport man directly into a region far beyond the earth . Wherever the Christian religion has been preached , nations have awakened to this new sense of faith in the supernatural , and it is there they have tasted of that strong food which made and which makes them still so superior to all other races of men . But , as we shall see , in no country has this been the case so thoroughly as in Ireland . Whatever may have been the cause , the Irish were at once , and have ever since continued , thoroughly impregnated with supernatural ideas . For several centuries after St. Patrick the island was " the Isle of Saints , " a place midway between heaven and earth , where angels and the saints of heaven came to dwell with mere mortals . The Christian belief was adopted by them to the letter ; and , if Christianity is truth , ought it not to be so ? Such a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ education  --  an education never repudiated one iota during the ages following its reception  --  deserves a thorough examination at our hands . We select it , secondly , because the Irish have successfully refused ever since to enter into the various currents of European opinion , although , by position and still more by religion , they formed a part of Europe . They have thus retained a character of their own , unlike that of any other nation . To this day , they stand firm in their admirable stubbornness ; and thus , when Europe shall be shaken and tottering , they will still stand firm . In the words of Moore , addressed to his own country : " The nations have fallen and thou still art young ; Thy sun is just rising when others are set ; And though slavery 's cloud o'er thy morning hath hung , The full noon of freedom shall beam round thee yet . " That constant refusal of the Irish to fall in with the rapid torrent of European thought and progress , as it is called , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at first an outlandish look , which many have not hesitated to call barbarism . We hope thoroughly to vindicate their character from such a foul aspersion , and to show this phenomenon as the secret cause of their final success , which is now all but secured ; and this feature alone of their national life adds to their character an interest which we find in no other Christian nation . We select it , thirdly , because there is no doubt that the Irish is the most ancient nationality of Western Europe ; and although , as in the case of the Chinese , the advantage of going up to the very cradle of mankind is not sufficient to impart interest to frigid annals , when that prerogative is united to a vivid life and an exuberant individuality , nothing contributes more to render a nation worthy of study than hoariness of age , and its derivation from a certain and definite primitive stock . It is true that , in reading the first chapters of all the various histories of Ireland , the foreign reader is struck and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ invariably , and with a truly Irish assurance , begin with one of the sons of Japhet , and , following the Hebrew or Septuagint chronology , describe without flinching the various colonizations of Erin , not omitting the synchronism of Assyrian , Persian , Greek , and Roman history . A smile is at first the natural consequence of such assertions ; and , indeed , there is no obligation whatever to believe that every thing happened exactly as they relate . But when the large quartos and octavos which are now published from time to time by the students of Irish antiquarian lore are opened , read , and pondered over , at least one consequence is drawn from them which strikes the reader with astonishment . " There can be no doubt , " every candid mind says to itself , " that this nation has preceded in time all those which have flourished on the earth , with the exception , perhaps , of the Chinese , and that it remains the same to-day . " At least , many years before Christ , a race of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ except that it did not enjoy the light of the true religion ) , yet very superior to it in point of material well-being . Not a race of cannibals , as the credulous Diodorus Siculus , on the strength of some vague tradition , was pleased to delineate ; but a people acquainted with the use of the precious metals , with the manufacture of fine tissues , fond of music and of song , enjoying its literature and its books ; often disturbed , it is true , by feuds and contentions , but , on the whole , living happily under the patriarchal rule of the clan system . The ruins which are now explored , the relics of antiquity which are often exhumed , the very implements and utensils preserved by the careful hand of the antiquarian  --  every thing , so different from the rude flint arrows and barbarous weapons of our North American Indians and of the European savages of the Stone period , denotes a state of civilization , astonishing indeed , when we reflect that real objects of art embellished the dwellings of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when Greece was as yet in a state of heroic barbarism . And this high antiquity is proved by literature as well as by art . " The ancient Irish , " says one of their latest historians , M. Haverty , " attributed the utmost importance to the accuracy of their Historic compositions for social reasons . Their whole system of society  --  every question as to right of property  --  turned upon the descent of families and the principle of clanship ; so that it can not be supposed that mere fables would be tolerated instead of facts , where every social claim was to be decided on their authority . A man 's name is scarcely mentioned in our annals without the addition of his forefathers for several generations  --  a thing which rarely occurs in those of other countries . " Again , when we arrive at the era of Christianity in Ireland , we find that our ancient annals stand the test of verification by science with a success which not only establishes their character for truthfulness at that period , but vindicates the records of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ skeptic can not refuse to believe that at the introduction of Christianity into Ireland , in 432 , the whole island was governed by institutions exactly similar to those of Gaul when Julius Caesar entered it 400 years before ; that this state must have existed for a long time anterior to that date ; and that the reception of the new religion , with all the circumstances which attended it , introduced the nation at once into a happy and social state , which other European countries , at that time convulsed by barbarian invasions , did not attain till several centuries later . These various considerations would alone suffice to show the real importance of the study we undertake ; but a much more powerful incentive to it exists in the very nature of the annals of the nation itself . Ireland is a country which , during the last thousand years , has maintained a constant struggle against three powerful enemies , and has finally conquered them all . The first stage of the conflict was that against the Northmen . It lasted three centuries , and ended @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ second act of the great drama occupied a period of four Hundred years , during which all the resources of the Irish clans were arrayed against Anglo-Norman feudalism , which had finally to succumb ; so that Erin remained the only spot in Europe where feudal institutions never prevailed . The last part of this fearful trilogy was a conflict of three centuries with Protestantism ; and the final victory is no longer doubtful . Can any other modern people offer to the meditation , and , we must say , to the admiration of the Christian reader , a more interesting spectacle ? The only European nation which can almost compete with the constancy and never-dying energy of Ireland is the Spanish in its struggle of seven centuries with the Moors . We have thought , therefore , that there might be some real interest and profit to be derived from the study of this eventful national life  --  an interest and a profit which will appear as we study it more in detail . It may be said that the threefold conflict which we have outlined might be condensed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the current of European affairs and influence have invariably failed . This is the key to the understanding of her whole history . Even originally , when it formed but a small portion of the great Celtic race , here existed in the Irish branch a peculiarity of its own , which stamped it with features easy to be distinguished . The gross idolatry of the Gauls never prevailed among the Irish ; the Bardic system was more fully developed among them than among any other Celtic nation . Song , festivity , humor , ruled there much more universally than elsewhere . There were among them more harpers and poets than even genealogists and antiquarians , although the branches of study represented by these last were certainly as well cultivated among them as among the Celts of Gaul , Spain , or Italy . But it is chiefly after the introduction of Christianity among them , when it appeared finally decreed that they should belong morally and socially to Europe , it is chiefly then that their purpose , however unconscious they may have been of its tendency , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of their own . And in this they followed only the promptings of Nature . The only people in Europe which remained untouched by what is called Roman civilization  --  never having seen a Roman soldier on their shores ; never having been blessed by the construction of Roman baths and amphitheatres ; never having listened to the declamations of Roman rhetoricians and sophists , nor received the decrees of Roman praetors , nor been subject to the exactions of the Roman fisc  --  they never saw among them , in halls and basilicas erected under the direction of Roman architects , Roman judges , governors , proconsuls , enforcing the decrees of the Caesars against the introduction or propagation of the Christian religion . Hence it entered in to them without opposition and bloodshed . But the new religion , far from depriving them of their characteristics , consecrated and made them lasting . They had their primitive traditions and tastes , their patriarchal government and manners , their ideas of true freedom and honor , reaching back almost to the cradle of mankind . They resolved to hold these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their resolve down to our own times . Fourteen hundred years of history since Patrick preached to them proves it clearly enough . First , then , although the Germanic tribes of the first invasion , as it is called , did not reach their shore , for the reason that the Germans , as little as the Celts , never possessed a navy  --  although neither Frank , nor Vandal , nor Hun , renewed among them the horrors witnessed in Gaul , Spain , Italy , and Africa  --  they could not remain safe from the Scandinavian pirates , whose vessels scoured all the northern seas before they could enter the Mediterranean through the Straits of Gibraltar . The Northmen , the Danes , came and tried to establish themselves among them and inculcate their northern manners , system , and municipal life . They succeeded in England , Holland , the north of France , and the south of Italy ; in a word , wherever the wind had driven their hide-bound boats . The Irish was the only nation of Western Europe which beat them back , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . As soon as the glories of the reign of Charlemagne had gone down in a sunset of splendor , the Northmen entered unopposed all the great rivers of France and Spain . They speedily conquered England . On all sides they ravaged the country and destroyed the population , whose only defence consisted in prayers to Heaven , with here and there an heroic bishop or count . In Ireland alone the Danes found to their cost that the Irish spear was thrust with a steady and firm hand ; and after two hundred years of struggle not only had they not arrived at the survey and division of the soil , as wherever else they had set foot , but , after Clontarf , the few cities they still occupied were compelled to pay tribute to the Irish Ard-Righ . Hence all attempts to substitute the Scandinavian social system for that of the Irish septs and clans were forever frustrated . City life and maritime enterprises , together with commerce and trade , were as scornfully rejected as the worship of Thor and Odin . Soon after this first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ originated a second struggle of longer duration and mightier import . The English Strongbow replaced the Danes with Norman freebooters , who occupied the precise spots which the new owners had reconquered from the Northmen , and never an inch more . Then a great spectacle was offered to the world , which has too much escaped the observation of historians , and to which we intend to draw the attention of our readers . The primitive , simple , patriarchal system of clanship was Confronted by the stern , young , ferocious feudal system , which was then beginning to prevail all over Europe . The question was , Would Ireland consent to become European as Europe was then organizing herself ? The struggle , as we shall see , between the Irish and the English in the twelfth century and later on , was merely a contest between the sept system and feudalism , involving , it is true , the possession of land . And , at the end of a contest lasting four hundred years , feudalism was so thoroughly defeated that the English of the Pale @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and formed only new septs among the old ones . Hence Ireland escaped all the commotions produced in Europe by the consequences of the feudal system : I. Serfdom , which was generally substituted for slavery , never existed in Ireland , slavery having disappeared before the entry of the Anglo-Normans . II . The universal oppression of the lower classes , which caused the simultaneous rising of the communes all over Europe , never having existed in Ireland , we shall not be surprised to find no mention in Irish history of that wide-spread institution of the eleventh and following centuries . III . An immense advantage which Ireland derived from her isolation , on which she always insisted , was her being altogether freed from the fearful mediaeval heresies which convulsed France particularly for a long period , and which invariably came from the East . For Erin remained so completely shut off from the rest of Europe , that , in spite of its ardent Catholicism , the Crusades were never preached to its inhabitants ; and , if some individual Irishman joined the ranks of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nation was in no way affected by the good or bad results which everywhere ensued from the marching of the Christian armies against the Moslem . The sects which sprang from Manicheism were certainly an evil consequence of the holy wars ; and it would be a great error to think that those heresies were short-lived and affected only for a brief space of time the social and moral state of Europe . It may be said that their fearfully disorganizing influence lasts to this day . If modern secret societies do not , in point of fact , derive their existence directly from the Bulgarism and Manicheism of the Middle Ages , there is no doubt that those dark errors , which Imposed on all their adepts a stern secrecy , paved the way for the conspiracies of our times . Hence Ireland , not having felt the effect of the former heresies , is in our days almost free from the universal contagion now decomposing the social fabric on all sides . But it is chiefly in modern times that the successful resistance offered by Ireland to many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ old customs , will evoke our wonder . Clanship reigned still over more than four-fifths of the island when the Portuguese were conquering a great part of India , and the Spaniards making Central and South America a province of their almost universal monarchy . The poets , harpers , antiquarians , genealogists , and students of Brehon law , still held full sway over almost the whole island , when the revival of pagan learning was , we may say , convulsing Italy , giving a new direction to the ideas of Germany , and penetrating France , Holland , and Switzerland . Happy were the Irish to escape that brilliant but fatal invasion of mythology and Grecian art and literature ! Had they not received enough of Greek and Latin lore at the hands of their first apostles and missionaries , and through the instrumentality of the numerous amanuenses and miniaturists in their monasteries and convents ? Those holy men had brought them what Christian Rome had purified of the old pagan dross , and sanctified by the new Divine Spirit . Virgin Ireland having thus remained undefiled , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ causes of succeeding revolutions , Protestantism , the final explosion of them all , could make no impression on her  --  a fact which remains to this day the brightest proof of her strength and vigor . But , before speaking of this last conflict , we must meet an objection which will naturally present itself . To steadily refuse to enter into the current of European thought , and object to submit in any way to its influence , is , pretend many , really to reject the claims of civilization , and persist in refusing to enter upon the path of progress . The North American savage has always been most persistent in this stubborn opposition to civilized life , and no one has as yet considered this a praiseworthy attribute . The more barbarous a tribe , the more firmly it adheres to its traditions , the more pertinaciously it follows the customs of its ancestors . They are immovable , and can not be brought to adopt usages new to them , even when they see the immense advantages they would reap from their adoption . Hence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have treated of Irish affairs , unhesitatingly call them barbarians , precisely on account of their stubbornness in rejecting the advances of the Anglo-Norman invaders . Sir John Davies , the attorney-general of James I. , could scarcely write a page on the subject without reverting to this idea . We answer that the Irish , even before their conversion to Christianity , but chiefly after , were not barbarians ; they never opposed true progress ; and they became , in fact , in the sixth , seventh , and eighth centuries , the moral and scientific educators of the greater part of Europe . What they refused to adopt they were right in rejecting . But , as there are still many men who , without ever having studied the question , do not hesitate , even in our days , to throw barbarism in their teeth , and attribute to it the pitiable condition which the Irish to-day present to the world , we add a few further considerations on this point . First , then , we say , barbarians have no history ; and the Irish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Until lately , it is true , the common opinion of writers on Ireland was adverse to this assertion of ours ; but , after the labors of modern antiquarians  --  of such men as O'Donovan , Todd , E. O'Curry , and others  --  there can no longer be any doubt on the subject . If Julius Caesar was right in stating that the Druids of Gaul confined themselves to oral teaching  --  and the statement may very well be questioned , with the light of present information on the subject  --  it is now proved that the Ollamhs of Erin kept written annals which went back to a very remote age of the world . The numerous histories and chronicles written by monks of the sixth and following centuries , the authenticity of which can not be denied , evidently presuppose anterior compositions dating much farther back than the introduction of our holy religion into Ireland , which the Christian annalists had in their hands when they wrote their books , sometimes in Latin , sometimes in old Irish , sometimes in a strange medley of both languages @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ireland the Roman alphabet only , and that it was thenceforth used not merely for the ritual of the Church , and the dissemination of the Bible and of the works of the Holy Fathers , but likewise for the transcription , in these newly-consecrated symbols of thought , of the old manuscripts of the island ; which soon disappeared , in the far greater number of instances at least , owing to the favor in which the Roman characters were held by the people and their instructors the bishops and monks . Let those precious old symbols be called Ogham , or by any other name  --  there must have been something of the kind . If any one insists that such was not the case , he must of necessity admit that the oral teaching of the Ollamhs was so perfect and so universally current in the same formulas all over the island , that such oral teaching really took the place of writing ; and in this case , also , which is scarcely possible , however , Ireland had an authentic history . This last supposition , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if the first be rejected , it must be admitted , since it can not be imagined that subsequent Irish historians , numerous as they became in time , could have agreed so well together , and remained so consistent with themselves , and so perfectly accurate in their descriptions of places and things in general , without anterior authentic documents of some kind or other , on which they could rely . Any person who has merely glanced at the astonishing production called the " Annals of the Four Masters , " must necessarily be of this opinion . In no nation in the world are there found so many old histories , annals , chronicles , etc. , as among the Irish ; and that fact alone suffices to prove that in periods most ancient they were truly a civilized nation , since they attached such importance to the records of events then taking place among them . But the Irish were , moreover , a branch of the great Celtic race , whose renown for wisdom , science , and valor , was spread through all parts , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ giving on the subject will convince the reader that among the nations of antiquity they held a prominent position ; and not only were they possessed of a civilization of their own , not despicable even in the eyes of a Roman  --  of the great Julius himself  --  but they were ever most susceptible of every kind of progress , and consequently eager to adopt all the social benefits which their intercourse with Rome brought them . At least , they did so as soon as , acknowledging the superior power of the enemy , they had the good sense to feel that it was all-important to imitate him . Hence sprang that Gallo-Roman civilization which obtained during the first five or six centuries of the Christian era  --  a civilization which the barbarians of the North endeavored to destroy , but to which they themselves finally yielded , by embracing Christianity , and gradually changing their language and customs . Everywhere  --  in Gaul , Italy , Britain , and Ireland  --  did the Celts manifest that susceptibility to progress which is the invariable mark of a state antagonistic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vandals and Huns , whom it took the Church such a dreary period to conquer , and whom no other power save the religion of Christ could have subdued . These few words are sufficient for our present purpose . We proceed to show that , in their stubborn opposition to many a current of European opinion , they acted rightly . They acted rightly , first of all , in excluding from their course of studies at Bangor , Clonfert , Armagh , Clonmacnoise , and other places , the subtleties of Greek philosophy , which occasioned heresies in Europe and Asia during the first ages of the Church , and were the cause of so many social and political convulsions . By adhering strictly  --  -a little too strictly , perhaps  --  to their traditional method of developing thought , they kept error far from their universities , and presented , in the sixth , seventh , and eighth centuries , the remarkable spectacle in Ireland , France , Germany , Switzerland , and even Northern Italy , of numerous schools wherein no wrangling found a place , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to censure . They were at that time the educators of Christian Europe , and not even a breath of suspicion was ever raised against any one of their innumerable teachers . If their mind , in general , did not on that account attain the acuteness of the French , Italians , or Germans , it was at all times safer and more guarded . Even their later hostility to the English Pale , after the eleventh century , was most useful , from its warning against the teachings of prelates sent from the English Universities of Oxford and Cambridge ; and Rome seems to have approved of that opposition , by using all her power in appointing to Irish sees , even within the Pale , prelates chosen from the Augustinian , Dominican , Franciscan , and Carmelite orders , in preference to secular ecclesiastics educated in the great seats of English learning . Thus the Irish , by opening their schools gratuitously to all Europe , but chiefly to Anglo-Saxon England , were not only of immense service to the Church , but showed how fully they appreciated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were to extend it by their traditional teaching . Nor did they confine themselves to receiving scholars in their midst : they sent abroad , during those ages , armies of zealous missionaries and learned men to Christianize the heathen , or educate the newly-converted Germanic tribes in Merovingian and Carlovingian Gaul , in Anglo-Saxon and Scandinavian England , in Lombardian Italy , in the very hives of those ferocious tribes which peopled the ever-moving and at that time convulsed Germany . II . They were right in refusing to submit to the Scandinavian yoke , and accept from those who would impose it their taste for city life , and the spirit of maritime enterprise and extensive commerce . We shall see that this was at the bottom of their two centuries of struggle with the Danes ; that they were animated throughout that conflict by their ardent zeal for the Christian religion , which the Northmen came to destroy . There is no need of dwelling on this point , as we are not aware that any one , even their bitterest enemies , has found fault with them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and steadily refusing to admit it on their soil . Feudal Europe beheld with surprise the inhabitants of a small island on the verge of the Western Continent level to the ground the feudal castles as soon as they were built ; reject with scorn the invaders ' claim to their soil , after they had signed papers which they could not understand ; hold fast to their patriarchal usages in opposition to the new-born European notions of paramount kings , of dukes , earls , counts , and viscounts ; fight for four hundred years against what the whole of Europe had everywhere else accepted , and conquer in the end ; so that the Irish of to-day can say with just pride , " Our island has never submitted to mediaeval feudalism . " And hence the island has escaped the modern results of the system , which we all witness to-day in the terrible hostility of class arrayed against class , the poor against the rich , the lower orders against the higher . The opposition in Ireland between the oppressed and the oppressor is of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But the fact is , that the clan system , with all its striking defects , had at least this immense advantage , that the clansmen did not look upon their chieftains as " lords and masters , " but as men of the same blood , true relations , and friends ; neither did the heads of the clans look on their men as villeins , serfs , or chattels , but as companions-in-arms , foster-brothers , supporters , and allies . Hence the opposition which exists in our days throughout Europe between class and class , has never existed in Ireland . Let a son of their old chiefs , if one can yet be found , go back to them , even but for a few days , after centuries of estrangement , and they are ready to welcome him yet , as a loyal nation would welcome her long-absent king , as a family would receive a father it esteemed lost . We knowing what manner a son of a French McMahon was lately received among them . All hostility is reserved for the foreigner , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the opinion of the natives , these have no real right to dwell on a soil they have impoverished , and which they tried in vain to enslave . This , at least , is their feeling . But the sons of the soil , whether rich or poor , high or low , are all united in a holy brotherhood . This state of things they have preserved by the exclusion of feudalism . IV . The Irish were right in not accepting from Europe what is known as the " revival of learning ; " at least , as carried almost to the excess of modern paganism by its first promoters . This " revival " did not reach Ireland . Many will , doubtless , attribute this fact to the almost total exclusion then supposed to exist of Ireland from all European intercourse . It would be a great error to imagine such to have been the cause . Indeed , at that very time , Ireland was more in daily contact with Italy , France , and Spain , than had been the case since the eighth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in opposing Anglo-Norman feudalism , and , finally , in not accepting the more than doubtful advantages flowing from the literary revival of the fifteenth century ; if , in all this , they did not oppose true progress , but merely wished to advance in the peculiar path opened up to them by the Christianity which they had received more fully , with more earnestness , and with a view to a greater development of the supernatural idea , than any other European nation  --  then , beyond all other modes , did they display their strength of will and their undying national vitality in their resistance to Protestantism  --  a resistance which has been called opposition to progress , but the success of which to-day proves beyond question that they were right . It was , the reader may remark , a resistance to the whole of Northern Europe , wherein their island was included . For , the whole of Northern Europe rebelled against the Church at the beginning of the sixteenth century , to enter upon a new road of progress and civilization , as it has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ materialism and atheism which now gapes under the feet of modern nations  --  an abyss in whose yawning womb nullus ordo , sed sempiternus horror habitat . The end of that progress is now plain enough : political and social convulsions , without any other probable issue than final anarchy , unless nations consent at last to retrace their steps and reorganize Christendom . But this was not apparent to the eyes of ordinary thinkers in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries . Only a few great minds saw the logical consequences of the premises laid down by Protestantism , and predicted something of what we now see . The Irish was the only northern nation which , to a man , opposed the terrible delusion , and , at the cost of all that is dear , waged against it a relentless war . " To a man ; " for , in spite of all the wiles of Henry VIII. , who brought every resource of his political talent into play , in order to win over to his side the great chieftains of the nation  --  in spite of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ overcome their resistance by her numerous armies , or , by the allurements of her court , strove her best , like her father , to woo to her allegiance the great leaders of the chief clans , particularly O'Neill of Tyrone  --  at the end of her long reign , after nearly a hundred years of Protestantism , only sixty Irishmen of all classes had received the new religion . At first , the struggle assumed a character more political than religious , and Queen Elizabeth did her best to give it , apparently , that character . But for her , religion meant politics ; and , had the Irish consented to accept the religious changes introduced by her father and herself , there would have been no question of " rebellion , " and no army would have been sent to crush it . The Irish chieftains knew this well ; hence , whenever the queen came to terms with them , the first article on which they invariably insisted was the freedom of their religion . But , under the Stuarts , and later on , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ England and Ireland reduced itself , we may say , to one of religion merely . All the political entanglements in which the Irish found themselves involved by their loyalty to the Stuarts and their opposition to the Roundheads , never constituted the chief difficulty of their position . They were " Papists : " this was their great crime in the eyes of their enemies . Cromwell would certainly never have endeavored to exterminate them as he did , had they apostatized and become ranting Puritans . One of our main points in the following pages will be to give prominence to this view of the question . If it had been understood from the first , the army of heroes who died for their God and their country would long ere this have been enrolled in the number of Christian martyrs . The subsequent policy of England , chiefly after the English Revolution of 1688 and the defeat of James II. , clearly shows the soundness of our interpretation of history . The " penal code , " under Queen Anne , and later on , at least has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is an open religious persecution , as , in fact , it had been from the beginning . We shall have , therefore , before our eyes the great spectacle of a nation suffering a martyrdom of three centuries . All the persecutions of the Christians under the Roman emperors pale before this long era of penalty and blood . The Irish , by numerous decrees of English kings and parliaments , were deprived of every thing which a man not guilty of crime has a right to enjoy . Land , citizenship , the right of education , of acquiring property , of living on their own soil  --  every thing was denied them , and death in every form was decreed , in every line of the new Protestant code , to men , women , and even children , whose only crime consisted in remaining faithful to their religion . But chiefly during the Cromwellian war and the nine years of the Protector 's reign were they doomed to absolute , unrelenting destruction . Never has any thing in the whole history of mankind equalled it in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under Zengis and Timour . There is , therefore , at the bottom of the Irish character , hidden under an appearance of light-headedness , mutability of feeling  --  nay , at times , futility and even childishness  --  a depth of according to the eternal laws which God gave to mankind . Nothing else is in their mind ; they are pursuing no guilty and shadowy Utopia . Who knows , then , whether their small island may not yet become the beacon-light which , guiding other nations , shall at a future day save Europe from the universal shipwreck which threatens her ? The providential mission of Ireland is far from being accomplished , and men may yet see that not in vain has she been tried so long in the crucible of affliction . Another part of the providential plan as affecting her will show itself , and excite our admiration , in the latter portion of the work we undertake . The Irish are no longer confined to the small island which gave them birth . From the beginning of their great woes , they have known @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to leave in a body a land wherein they could no longer exist ; and , during the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries , they made the Irish name illustrious on all the battle-fields of Europe . At the same time , many of their priests and monks , unable longer to labor among their countrymen , spent their lives in the libraries , of Italy , Belgium , and Spain , and gave to the world those immense works so precious now to the antiquarian and historian . Every one knows what Montalembert , in particular , found in them . They may be said to have preserved the annals of their nation from total ruin ; and the names of the O'Clearys , of Ward and Wadding , of Colgan and Lynch , are becoming better known and appreciated every day , as their voluminous works are more studied and better understood . But much more remarkable still is the immense spread of the people itself during the present age , so fruitful in happy results for the Church of Christ and the good of mankind . We may say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and eighth centuries are to-day eclipsed by the truly missionary work of a whole nation spread now over North America , the West India Islands , the East Indies , and the wilds of Australia ; in a word , wherever the English language is spoken . Whatever may have been the visible causes of that strange " exodus , " there is an invisible cause clear enough to any one who meditates on the designs of God over his Church . There is no presumption in attributing to God himself what could only come from Him . The catholicity of the Church was to be spread and preserved through and in all those vast regions colonized now by the adventurous English nation ; and no better , no more simple way of effecting this could be conceived than the one whose workings we see in those colonies so distant from the mother-country . This , for the time being , is the chief providential mission of Ireland , and it is truly a noble one , undertaken and executed in a noble manner by so many thousands , nay millions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in worldly goods when they start on their career , but rich in faith ; and it is as true now as it has ever been from the beginning of Christianity , that haec est victoria nostra , fides vestra . These few words of our Preface would not suffice to prepare the reader for the high importance of this stupendous phenomenon . We We purpose , therefore , devoting our second chapter to the subject , as a preparation for the very interesting details we shall furnish subsequently , as it is proper that , from the very threshold , an idea may be formed of the edifice , and of the entire proportions it is destined to assume . We have so far sketched , as briefly as possible , what the following pages will develop ; and the reader may now begin to understand what we said at starting , that no other nation in Europe offers so interesting an object of study and reflection . Plato has said that the most meritorious spectacle in the eyes of God was that of " a just man struggling with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nation , during nine long ages , offers to Heaven the most sublime virtues in the midst of the extremest trials ? Are not the great lessons which such a contest presents worthy of study and admiration ? We purpose studying them , although we can not pretend to render full justice to such a theme . And , returning for a moment to the considerations with which we started , we can truly say that , in the whole range of modern history , it would be difficult , if not impossible , to find a national life to compare with that of poor , despised Ireland . Neither do we pretend to write the history itself ; our object is more humble : we merely pen some considerations suggested naturally by the facts which we suppose to be already known , with the purpose of arriving at a true appreciation of the character of the people . For it is the people itself we study ; the reader will meet with comparatively few individual names . We shall find , moreover , that the nation has never varied . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ facts , the same terrible misfortunes . The actors change continually ; the outward circumstances at every moment present new aspects , so that the interest never flags ; but the spirit of the struggle is ever the same , and the latest descendants of the first O'Neills and O'Donnells burn with the same sacred fire , and are inspired by the same heroic aspirations , as their fathers . Happily , the gloom is at length lighted up by returning day . The contest has lost its ferocity , and we are no longer surrounded by the deadly shade which obscured the sky a hundred years ago . Then it was hard to believe that the nation could ever rise ; her final success seemed almost an impossibility . We now see that those who then despaired sinned against Providence , which waited for its own time to arrive and vindicate its ways . And it is chiefly on account of the bright hope which begins to dawn that our subject should possess for all a lively interest , and fill the Catholic heart with glowing sympathy and ardent thankfulness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ World Under The Lead Of European Races .  --  Mission Of The Irish Race In The Movement III The Irish Better Prepared To Receive Christianity Than Other Nations IV How the Irish received Christianity V The Christian Irish and the Pagan Danes VI The Irish Free-Clans and Anglo-Norman Feudalism VII Ireland separated from Europe .  --  A Triple Episode VIII The Irish and the Tudors .  --  Henry VIII . IX The Irish and the Tudors .  --  Elizabeth .  --  The Undaunted Nobility .  --  The Suffering Church X England prepared for the Reception of Protestantism  --  Ireland not XI The Irish and the Stuarts.  --  Loyalty and Confiscation XII A Century of Gloom .  --  The Penal Laws XIII Resurrection .  --  Delusive Hopes XIV Resurrection .  --  Emigration XV The " Exodus " and its Effects XVI Moral Force all-sufficient for the Resurrection of Ireland CHAPTER I The Celtic Race . Nations which preserve , as it were , a perpetual youth , should be studied from their origin . Never having totally changed , some of their present features may be recognized at the very cradle of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out in bolder relief their actual peculiarities . Hence we consider it to our purpose to examine the Celtic race first , as we may know it from ancient records : What it was ; what it did ; what were its distinctive features ; what its manners and chief characteristics . A strong light will thus be thrown even on the Irish of our own days . Our words must necessarily be few on so extensive a subject ; but , few as they are , they will not be unimportant in our investigations . In all the works of God , side by side with the general order resulting from seemingly symmetric laws , an astonishing variety of details everywhere shows itself , producing on the mind of man the idea of infinity , as effectually as the wonderful aspect of a seemingly boundless universe . This variety is visible , first in the heavenly bodies , as they are called ; star differing from star , planet from planet ; even the most minute asteroids never showing themselves to us two alike , but always offering differences in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is visible to us chiefly on our globe ; in the infinite multiplicity of its animal forms , in the wonderful insect tribes , and in the brilliant shells floating in the ocean ; visible also in the incredible number of trees , shrubs , herbs , down to the most minute vegetable organisms , spread with such reckless abundance on the surface of our dwelling ; visible , finally , in the infinity of different shapes assumed by inorganic matter . But what is yet more wonderful and seemingly unaccountable is that , taking every species of being in particular , and looking at any two individuals of the same species , we would consider it an astonishing effect of chance , were we to meet with two objects of our study perfectly alike . The mineralogist notices it , if he finds in the same group of crystals two altogether similar ; the botanist would express his astonishment if , on comparing two specimens of the same plant , he found no difference between them . The same may be said of birds , of reptiles , of mammalia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even easily detect dissimilarities between the double organs of the same person , between the two eyes of his neighbor , the two hands of a friend , the two feet of a stranger whom he meets . It is therefore but consistent with general analogy that in the moral as well as in the physical faculties of man , the same ever-recurring variety should appear , in the features of the face , in the shape of the limbs , in the moving of the muscles , as well as in the activity of thought , in the mobility of humor , in the combination of passions , propensities , sympathies , and aversions . But , at the same time , with all these peculiarities perceptible in individuals , men , when studied attentively , show themselves in groups , as it were , distinguished from other groups by peculiarities of their own , which are generally called characteristics of race ; and although , according to various systems , these characteristics are made to expand or contract at will , to serve an a priori purpose , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ respect to them , startling facts which no one can gainsay , and which are worthy of serious attention . Two of these facts may be stated in the following propositions : I. At the cradle of a race or nation there must have been a type imprinted on its progenitor , and passing from him to all his posterity , which distinguishes it from all others . II . The character of a race once established , can not be eradicated without an almost total disappearance of the people . The proofs of these propositions would require long details altogether foreign to our present purpose , as we are not writing on ethnology . We will take them for granted , as otherwise we may say that the whole history of man would be unintelligible . If , however , writers are found who apply to their notion of race all the inflexibility of physical laws , and who represent history as a rigid system of facts chained together by a kind of fatality ; if a school has sprung up among historians to do away with the moral responsibility @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to tell the reader that nothing is so far from our mind as to adopt ideas destructive , in fact , to all morality . It is our belief that there is no more " necessity " in the leanings of race with respect to nations , than there is in the corrupt instincts of our fallen nature with respect to individuals . The teachings of faith have clearly decided this in the latter case , and the consequence of this authoritative decision carries with it the determination of the former . According to the doctrine of St. Augustine , nations are rewarded or punished in this world , because there is no future existence for them ; but the fact of rewards and punishments awarded them shows that their life is not a series of necessary sequences such as prevail in physics , and that the manifestations or phenomena of history , past , present , or future , can not resolve themselves into the workings of absolute laws . Race , in our opinion , is only one of those mysterious forces which play upon the individual from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members of the same family , and give it a peculiarity of its own , without , however , interfering in the least with the moral freedom of the individual ; and as in him there is free-will , so also in the family itself to which he belongs may God find cause for approval or disapproval . The heart of a Christian ought to be too full of gratitude and respect for Divine Providence to take any other view of history . It would be presumptuous on our part to attempt an explanation of the object God proposed to himself in originating such a diversity in human society . We can only say that it appears He did not wish all mankind to be ever subject to the same rule , the same government and institutions . His Church alone was to bear the character of universality . Outside of her , variety was to be the rule in human affairs as in all things else . A universal despotism was never to become possible . This at once explains why the posterity of Japhet is so different from that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great primitive stocks , an all-wise Providence introduced a large number of sub-races , if we may be allowed to call them so , out of which are sprung the various nations whose intermingling forms the web of human history . Our object is to consider only the Celtic branch . For , whatever may be the various theories propounded on the subject of the colonization of Ireland , from whatever part of the globe the primitive inhabitants may be supposed to have come , one thing is certain , to-day the race is yet one , in spite of the foreign blood infused into it by so many men of other stocks . Although the race was at one time on the verge of extinction by Cromwell , it has finally absorbed all the others ; it has conquered ; and , whoever has to deal with true Irishmen , feels at once that he deals with a primitive people , whose ancestors dwelt on the island thousands of years ago . Some slight differences may be observed in the people of the various provinces of the island ; there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their looks , some slight divergence in their disposition or manners ; it can not be other wise , since , as we have seen , no two individuals of the human family can be found perfectly alike . But , in spite of all this , they remain Celts to this day ; they belong undoubtedly , to that stock formerly wide-spread throughout Europe , and now almost confined to their island ; for the character of the same race in Wales , Scotland , and Brittany , has not been , and could not be , kept so pure as in Erin ; so that in our age the inhabitants of those countries have become more and more fused with their British and Gallic neighbors . We must , therefore , at the beginning of this investigation , state briefly what we know of the Celtic race in ancient times , and examine whether the Irish of to-day do not reproduce its chief characteristics . We do not propose , however , in the present study , referring to the physical peculiarities of the Celtic tribes ; we do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ago . We must confine ourselves to moral propensities and to manners , and for this view of the subject we have sufficient materials whereon to draw . We first remark in this race an immense power of expansion , when not checked by truly insurmountable obstacles ; a power of expansion which did not necessitate for its workings an uninhabited and wild territory , but which could show its energy and make its force felt in the midst of already thickly-settled regions , and among adverse and warlike nations . As far as history can carry us back , the whole of Western Europe , namely , Gaul , a part of Spain , Northern Italy , and what we call to-day the British Isles , are found to be peopled by a race apparently of the same origin , divided into an immense number of small republics ; governed patriarchally in the form of clans , called by Julius Caesar , " Civitates . " The Greeks called them Celts , " Keltai . " They do not appear to have adopted a common name for themselves , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to have occurred to them . Yet the name of Gaels in the British Isles , and of Gauls in France and Northern Italy , seems identical . Not only did they fill the large expanse of territory we have mentioned , but they multiplied so fast , that they were compelled to send out armed colonies in every direction , set as they were in the midst of thickly-peopled regions . We possess few details of their first invasion of Spain ; but Roman history has made us all acquainted with their valor . It was in the first days of the Republic that an army of Gauls took possession of Rome , and the names of Manlius and Camillus are no better known in history than that of Brenn , called by Livy , Brennus . His celebrated answer , " Vae victis , " will live as long as the world . Later on , in the second century before Christ , we see another army of Celts starting from Pannonia , on the Danube , where they had previously settled , to invade Greece . Another Brenn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were soon conquered ; and , it is said , some of the peculiarities of the race may still be remarked in many Albanians . Thessaly could not resist the impetuosity of the invaders ; the Thermopylae were occupied by Gallic battalions , and that celebrated defile , where three hundred Spartans once detained the whole army of Xerxes , could offer no obstacle to Celtic bravery . Hellas , sacred Hellas , came then under the power of the Gauls , and the Temple of Delphi was already in sight of Brenn and his warriors , when , according to Greek historians , a violent earthquake , the work of the offended gods , threw confusion into the Celtic ranks , which were subsequently easily defeated and destroyed by the Greeks . A branch of this army of the Delphic Brenn had separated from the main body on the frontiers of Thrace , taken possession of Byzantium , the future Constantinople , and , crossing the straits , established itself in the Heart of Asia Minor , and there founded the state of Galatia , or Gallo-Greece , which so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the affairs of Asia and of the whole Orient , where they established a social state congenial to their tastes and customs . But the Romans soon after invading Asia Minor , the twelve clannish republics formerly founded were , according to Strabo , first reduced to three , then to two , until finally Julius Caesar made Dejotar king of the whole country . The Celts could not easily brook such a change of social relations ; but , unable to cope against Roman power , they came , as usual , to wrangle among themselves . The majority pronounced for another chieftain , named Bogitar , and succeeded in forming a party in Rome in his favor . Clodius , in an assembly of the Roman people , obtained a decree confirmatory of his authority , and he took possession of Pessinuntum , and of the celebrated Temple of Cybele . The history of this branch of the Celts , nevertheless , did not close with the evil fortunes of their last king . According to Justinus , they swarmed all over Asia . Having lost their autonomy as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Swiss mercenaries of the whole Orient . Egypt , Syria , Pontus , called them to their defence . " Such , " says Justinus , " was the terror excited by their name , and the constant success of their undertakings , that no king on his throne thought himself secure , and no fallen prince imagined himself able to recover his power , except with the help of the ever-ready Celts of those countries . " This short sketch suffices to show their power of expansion in ancient times among thickly-settled populations . When we have shown , farther on , how to-day they are spreading all over the world , not looking to wild and desert countries , but to large centres of population in the English colonies , we shall be able to convince ourselves that they still present the same characteristic . If they do not bear arms in their hands , it is owing to altered circumstances ; but their actual expansion bears a close resemblance to that of ancient times , and the similarity of effect shows the similarity of character . We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which has not , to our knowledge , been sufficiently dwelt upon . All their migrations in old times were across continents ; and if , occasionally , they crossed the Mediterranean Sea , they did so always in foreign vessels . The Celtic race , as we have seen , occupied the whole of Western Europe . They had , therefore , numerous harbors on the Atlantic , and some excellent ones on the Mediterranean . Many passed the greater portion of their lives on the sea , supporting themselves by fishing ; yet they never thought of constructing and arming large fleets ; they never fought at sea in vessels of their own , with the single exception of the naval battle between Julius Caesar and the Veneti , off the coast of Armorica , where , in one day , the Roman general destroyed the only maritime armament which the Celts ever possessed . And even this fact is not an exception to the general rule ; for M. de Penhouet , the greatest antiquarian , perhaps , in Celtic lore in Brittany , has proved that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rather a colony of Carthaginians , the only one probably remaining , in the time of Caesar , of those once numerous foreign colonies of the old enemies of Rome . Still this strange anomaly , an anomaly which is observable in no other people living on an extensive coast , was not produced by ignorance of the uses and importance of large fleets . From the first they held constant intercourse with the great navigators of antiquity . The Celtic harbors teemed with the craft of hardy seamen , who came from Phoenicia , Carthage , and finally from Rome . Heeren , in his researches on the Phoenicians , proves it for that very early age , and mentions the strange fact that the name of Ireland with them was the " Holy Isle . " For several centuries , the Carthaginians , in particular , used the harbors of Spain , of Gaul , even of Erin and Britain , as their own . The Celtic inhabitants of those countries allowed them to settle peaceably among them , to trade with them , to use their cities as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ harbors , although that African nation never really colonized the country , does not appear to have made war on the inhabitants in order to occupy it , except in a few instances , when thwarted , probably , in their commercial enterprises ; but they always lived on peaceful terms with the aborigines , whom they benefited by their trade , and , doubtless , enlightened by the narrative of their expeditions in distant lands . Is it not a strikingly strange fact that , under such circumstances , the Celts should never have thought of possessing vessels of their own , if not to push the enterprises of an extensive commerce , for which they never showed the slightest inclination , at least for the purpose of shipping their colonies abroad , and crossing directly to Greece from Celtiberia , for instance , or from their Italian colony of the Veneti , replaced in modern times by maritime Venice ? Yet so it was ; and the great classic scholar , Heeren , in his learned researches on the Phoenicians and Carthaginians , remarks it with surprise . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ southern navigators from Carthage in establishing their colonies everywhere , is the fact of no people in Spain , Gaul , or the British Isles , possessing at the time a navy of their own ; and , finding it so surprising , he does not attempt to explain it , as indeed it really remains without any possible explanation , save the lack of inclination springing from the natural promptings of the race . What renders it more surprising still is , that individually they had no aversion to a seafaring life ; not only many of them subsisted by fishing , but their curraghs covered the sea all along their extensive coasts . They could pass from island to island in their small craft . Thus the Celts of Erin frequently crossed over to Scotland , to the Hebrides , from rock to rock , and in Christian times they went as far as the Faroe group , even as far as Iceland , which some of them appear to have attempted to colonize long before the Norwegian outlaws went there ; and some even say that from Erin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before the Icelandic Northmen planted establishments in that dreary country . The Celts , therefore , and those of Erin chiefly , were a seafaring race . But to construct a fleet , to provision and arm it , to fill it with the flower of their youth , and send them over the ocean to plunder and slay the inhabitants for the purpose of colonizing the countries they had previously devastated , such was never the character of the Celts . They never engaged extensively in trade , or what is often synonymous , piracy . Before becoming christianized , the Celts of Ireland crossed over the narrow channel which divided them from Britain , and frequently carried home slaves ; they also passed occasionally to Armorica , and their annals speak of warlike expeditions to that country ; but their efforts at navigation were always on an extremely limited scale , in spite of the many inducements offered by their geographical position . The fact is striking when we compare them in that particular with the Scandinavian free-rovers of the Northern Ocean . It is , therefore , very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it was always a single and open vessel . They did so in pagan times , when the largest portion of Western Europe was theirs ; they continued to do so after they became Christians . The race has always appeared opposed to the operations of an extensive commerce , and to the spreading of their power by large fleets . The ancient annals of Ireland speak , indeed , of naval expeditions ; but these expeditions were always undertaken by a few persons in one , two , or , at most , three boats , as that of the sons of Ua Corra ; and such facts consequently strengthen our view . The only fact which seems contradictory is supposed to have occurred during the Danish wars , when Callaghan , King of Cashel , is said to have been caught in an ambush , and conveyed a captive by the Danes , first to Dublin , then to Armagh , and finally to Dundalk . The troops of Kennedy , son of Lorcan , are said to have been supported by a fleet of fifty sail , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ need not repeat the story so well known to all readers of Irish history . But this fact is found only in the work of Keating , and the best critics accept it merely as an historical romance , which Keating thought proper to insert in his history . Still , even supposing the truth of the story , all that we may conclude from it is that the seafaring Danes , at the end of their long wars , had taught the Irish to use the sea as a battlefield , to the extent of undertaking a small expedition in order to liberate a beloved chieftain . It is very remarkable , also , that according to the annals of Ireland , the naval expeditions nearly always bore a religious character , never one of trade or barter , with the exception of the tale of Brescan , who was swallowed up with his fifty curraghs , in which he traded between Ireland and Scotland . Nearly all the other maritime excursions are voyages undertaken with a Christian or Godlike object . Thus our holy religion was carried over to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who evangelized those numerous groups of small islands . Crossing in their skiffs , and planting the cross on some far-seen rock or promontory , they perched their monastic cells on the bold bluffs overlooking the ocean . No more was the warrior on carnage bent to be seen on the seaboards of Ulster or the western coast of Albania , as Scotland was then called ; only unarmed men dressed in humble monastic garb trod those wave-beaten shores . At early morning they left the cove of their convent ; they spread their single sail , and plied their well-worn oars , crossing from Colombsay to Iona , or from the harbor of Bangor to the nearest shore of the Isle of Man . At noon they may have met a brother in the middle of the strait in his shell of a boat , bouncing over the water toward the point they had left . And the holy sign of the cross passed from one monk to the other , and the word of benison was carried through the air , forward and back , and the heaven @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , while the hearts of the two brothers were softened by holy feelings ; and nothing in the air around , on the dimly-visible shores , on the surface of the heaving waves , was seen or heard save what might raise the soul to heaven and the heart to God . In concluding this portion of our subject , we will merely refer to the fact that neither the Celts of Gaul or Britain , nor those of Ireland , ever opposed an organized fleet to the numerous hostile naval armaments by which their country was invaded . When the Roman fleet , commanded by Caesar , landed in Great Britain , when the innumerable Danish expeditions attacked Ireland , whenever the Anglo-Normans arrived in the island during the four hundred years of the colony of the Pale , we never hear of a Celtic fleet opposed to the invaders . Italian , Spanish , and French fleets came in oftentimes to the help of the Irish ; yet never do we read that the island had a single vessel to join the friendly expedition . We may safely conclude @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inclination for sending large expeditions to sea , whether for extensive trading , or for political and warlike purposes . They have always used the vessels of other nations , and it is no surprise , therefore , to find them now crowding English ships in their migrations to colonize other countries . It is one of the propensities of the race . A third feature of Celtic character and mind now attracts our attention , namely , a peculiar literature , art , music , and poetry , wherein their very soul is portrayed , and which belongs exclusively to them . Some very interesting considerations will naturally flow from this short investigation . It is the study of the constitution of the Celtic mind . In Celtic countries literature was the perfect expression of the social state of the people . Literature must naturally be so everywhere , but it was most emphatically so among the Celts . With them it became a state institution , totally unknown to other nations . Literature and art sprang naturally from the clan system , and consequently adopted a form not to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entirely traditional cast , those pursuits imparted to their minds a steady , conservative , traditional spirit , which has resulted in the happiest consequences for the race , preserving it from theoretical vagaries , and holding it aloof , even in our days , from the aberrations which all men now deplore in other European nations , and whose effects we behold in the anarchy of thought . This last consideration adds to this portion of our subject a peculiar and absorbing interest . The knowledge which Julius Caesar possessed of the Druids and of their literary system was very incomplete ; yet he presents to his readers a truly grand spectacle , when he speaks of their numerous schools , frequented by an immense number of the youths of the country , so different from those of Rome , in which his own mind had been trained  --  " Ad has magnus adolescentium numerus disciplinae causa concurrit : " when he mentions the political and civil subjects submitted to the judgment of literary men  --  " de omnibus controversiis publicis privatisque constituunt . ... Si de hereditate , si @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he states the length of their studies  --  " annos nonnulli vicenos in disciplina permanent : " when he finally draws a short sketch of their course of instruction  --  " multa de sideribus atque eorum motu , de mundi ac terrarum magnitudine , .... disputant juventutique tradunt . " But , unfortunately , the great author of the " Commentaries " had not sufficiently studied the social state of the Celts in Gaul and Britain ; he never mentions the clan institution , even when he speaks of the feuds  --  factiones  --  which invariably split their septs  --  civitates  --  into hostile parties . In his eleventh chapter , when describing the contentions which were constantly rife in the cities , villages , even single houses , when remarking the continual shifting of the supreme authority from the Edui to the Sequani , and reciprocally , he seems to be giving in a few phrases the long history of the Irish Celts ; yet he does not appear to be aware of the cause of this universal agitation , namely , the clan system , of which he does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perceived the effect of that system on their literature and art ? To understand it at once it suffices to describe in a few words the various branches of studies pursued by their learned men ; and , as we are best acquainted with that portion of the subject which concerns Ireland , we will confine ourselves to it . There is no doubt the other agglomerations of Celtic tribes , the Gauls chiefly , enjoyed institutions very similar , if not perfectly alike . The highest generic name for a learned man or doctor was " ollamh . " These ollamhs formed a kind of order in the race , and the privileges bestowed on them were most extensive . " Each one of them was allowed a standing income of twenty-one cows and their grasses , " in the chieftain 's territory , besides ample refections for himself and his attendants , to the number of twenty-four , including his subordinate tutors , his advanced pupils , and his retinue of servants . He was entitled to have two hounds and six horses , . . . and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by carrying his wand , or having it carried around or over the person or place to be protected . His wife also enjoyed certain other valuable privileges .  --  ( Prof. E. Curry , Lecture I. ) But to reach that degree he was to prove for himself , purity of learning , purity of mouth ( from satire ) , purity of hand ( from bloodshed ) , purity of union ( in marriage ) , purity of honesty ( from theft ) , and purity of body ( having but one wife ) . With the Celts , therefore , learning constituted a kind of priesthood . These were his moral qualifications . His scientific attainments require a little longer consideration , as they form the chief object we have in view . They may at the outset be stated in a few words . The ollamh was " a man who had arrived at the highest degree of historical learning , and of general literary attainments . He should be an adept in royal synchronisms , should know the boundaries of all the provinces and chieftaincies , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the tribes of Erin up to the first man .  --  ( Prof. Curry , Lecture X. ) Caesar had already told us of the Druids , " Si de hereditate , si de finibus controversia est iidem decernunt . " In this passage he gives us a glimpse of a system which he had not studied sufficiently to embrace in its entirety . The qualifications of an ollamh which we have just enumerated , that is to say , of the highest doctor in Celtic countries , already prove how their literature grew out of the clan system . The clan system , of which we shall subsequently speak more at length , rested entirely on history , genealogy , and topography . The authority and rights of the monarch of the whole country , of the so-called kings of the various provinces , of the other chieftains in their several degrees , finally , of all the individuals who composed the nation connected by blood with the chieftains and kings , depended entirely on their various genealogies , out of which grew a complete system of general and personal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a thorough knowledge of topography for the adjustment of their difficulties . Hence the importance to the whole nation of accuracy in these matters , and of a competent authority to decide on all such questions . But in Celtic countries , more than in all others , topography was connected with general history , as each river or lake , mountain or hill , tower or hamlet , had received a name from some historical fact recorded in the public annals ; so that even now the geographical etymologies frequently throw a sudden and decisive light on disputed points of ancient history . So far , this can not be called a literature ; it might be classed under the name of statistics , or antiquarian lore ; and if their history consisted merely of what is contained in the old annals of the race , it would be presumptuous to make a particular alllusion to their literature , and make it one of the chief characteristics of the race . The annals , in fact , were mere chronological and synchronic tables of previous events . But an immense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on each particular event interesting to each Celtic tribe : and even now many of those special facts recorded in these books owe their origin to some assertion or hint given in the annals . There is no doubt that long ago their learned men were fully acquainted with all the points of reference which escape the modern antiquarian . History for them , therefore , was very different from what the Greeks and Romans have made it in the models they left us , which we have copied or imitated . It is only in their detached " historical tales " that they display any skill in description or narration , any remarkable pictures of character , manners , and local traditions ; and it seems that in many points they show themselves masters of this beautiful art . Thus they had stories of battles , of voyages , of invasions , of destructions , of slaughters , of sieges , of tragedies and deaths , of courtships , of military expeditions ; and all this strictly historical . For we do not here speak of their " imaginative tales @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such as the Fenian and Ossianic poems , which are also founded on facts , but can no more claim the title of history than the novels of Scott or Cooper . The number of those books was so great that the authentic list of them far surpasses in length what has been preserved of the old Greek and Latin writers . It is true that they have all been saved and transmitted to us by Christian Irishmen of the centuries intervening between the sixth and sixteenth ; but it is also perfectly true that whatever was handed down to us by Irish monks and friars came to them from the genuine source , the primitive authors , as our own monks of the West have preserved to us all we know of Greek and Latin authors . So that the question so long decided in the negative , whether the Irish knew handwriting prior to the Christian era and the coming of St. Patrick , is no longer a question , now that so much is known of their early literature . St. Patrick and his brother monks brought with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ writers who had preceded him ; but he could not teach them what had happened in the country before his time , events which form the subject-matter of their annals , historical and imaginative tales and poems . For the Christian authors of Ireland subsequently to transmit those facts to us , they must evidently have copied them from older books , which have since perished . Prof. E. Curry thinks that the Ogham characters , so often mentioned in the most ancient Irish books , were used in Erin long before the introduction of Christianity there . And he strengthens his opinion by proofs which it is difficult to contradict . Those characters are even now to be seen in some of the oldest books which have been preserved , as well as on many stone monuments , the remote antiquity of which can not be denied . One well-authenticated fact suffices , however , to set the question at rest : " It is quite certain , " says E. Curry , " that the Irish Druids and poets had written books before the coming of St. Patrick in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ancient Gaelic Tripartite life of the Saint , as well as in the " Annotations of Tirechan " preserved in the Book of Armagh , which were taken by him ( Tirechan ) from the lips and books of his tutor , St. Mochta , who was the pupil and disciple of St. Patrick himself . " What Caesar , then , states of the Druids , that they committed every thing to memory and used no books , is not strictly true . It must have been true only with regard to their mode of teaching , in that they gave no books to their pupils , but confined themselves to oral instruction . The order of Ollamh comprised various sub-orders of learned men . And the first of these deserving our attention is the class of " Seanchaidhe , " pronounced Shanachy . The ollamh seems to have been the historian of the monarch of the whole country ; the shanachy had the care of provincial records . Each chieftain , in fact , down to the humblest , had an officer of this description , who enjoyed privileges @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of emoluments graduated according to his usefulness in the state ; so that we can already obtain some idea of the honor and respect paid to the national literature and traditions in the person of those who were looked upon in ancient times as their guardians from age to age . The shanachies were also bound to prove for themselves the moral qualifications of the ollamhs.1 ( 1 " Purity of hand , bright without wounding , Purity of mouth , without poisonous satire , Purity of learning , without reproach , Purity of husbandship , in marriage . " Many of these details and the following are chiefly derived from Prof. E. Curry  --  ( Early Irish Manuscripts . ) ) A shanachy of any degree , who did not preserve these " purities , " lost half his income and dignity , according to law , and was subject to heavy penalties besides . According to McFirbis , in his book of genealogies , " the historians were so anxious and ardent to preserve the history of Erin , that the description they have left us of the nobleness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wondered at , since they did not refrain from writing even of the undignified artisans , and of the professors of the healing and building arts of ancient times  --  as shall be shown below , to prove the fidelity of the historians , and the errors of those who make such assertions , as , for instance , that there were no stone buildings in Erin before the coming of the Danes and Anglo-Normans . " Thus saith an ancient authority : The first doctor , the first builder , and the first fisherman , that were ever in Erin were  --  Capa , for the healing of the sick , In his time was all-powerful ; And Luasad , the cunning builder , And Laighne , the fisherman . ' " So speaks McFirbis in his quaint and picturesque style . The literature of the Celts was , therefore , impressed with the character of realistic universality , which has been the great boast of the romantic school . It did not concern itself merely with the great and powerful , but comprised all classes of people , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in human society . This is no doubt the meaning of the quotation just cited . Among the Celts , then , each clan had his historian to record the most minute details of every-day history , as well as every fact of importance to the whole clan , and even to the nation at large ; and thus we may see how literature with them grew naturally out of their social system . The same may not appear to hold good at first sight with the other classes of literary men ; yet it would be easy to discover the link connecting them all , and which was always traditional or matter-of-fact , if we may use that expression . The next SUB-ORDER was that of File , which is generally translated poet , but its meaning also involves the idea of philosophy or wisdom added to that of poetry . The File among the Celts was , after all , only an historian writing in verse ; for all their poetry resolved itself into annals , " poetic narratives " of great events , or finally " ballads . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has preceded prose ; and the first writers that appeared anywhere always wrote in verse . It seems , therefore , that in Celtic tribes the order of File was anterior in point of time to that of Shanachy , and that both must have sprung naturally from the same social system . Hence the monarch of the whole nation had his poets , as also the provincial kings and every minor chieftain . In course of time their number increased to such an extent in Ireland , that at last they became a nuisance to be abated . " It is said that in the days of Connor McNassa  --  several centuries before Christ  --  there met once 1,200 poets in one company ; another time 1,000 , and another 700 , namely , in the days of Aedh McAinmire and Columcille , in the sixth century after our Saviour . And between these periods Erin always thought that she had more of learned men than she wanted ; so that from their numbers and the tax their support imposed upon the public , it was attempted to banish them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were detained by the Ultonians for hospitality 's sake . This is evident from the Amhra Columcille ( panegyric of St. Columba ) . He was the last that kept them in Ireland , and distributed a poet to every territory , and a poet to every king , in order to lighten the burden of the people in general . So that there were people in their following , contemporary with every generation to preserve the history and events of the country at this time . Not these alone , but the kings , and , saints , and churches of Erin preserved their history in like manner . " From this curious passage of McFirbis , it is clear that the Celtic poets proposed to themselves the same object as the historians did ; only that they wrote in verse , and no doubt allowed themselves more freedom of fancy , without altering the facts which were to them of paramount importance . McFirbis , in the previous passage , gives us a succinct account of the action of Columbkill in regard to the poets or bards of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with this event , which must be considered as one of the most important in Ireland during the sixth century . The order of poets or bards was a social and political institution , reaching back in point of time to the birth of the nation , enjoying extensive privileges , and without which Celtic life would have been deprived of its warmth and buoyancy . Yet Aed , the monarch of all Ireland , was inclined to abolish the whole order , and banish , or even outlaw , all its members . Being unable to do it of his own authority , he thought of having the measure carried in the assembly of Drumceit , convened for the chief purpose of settling peacefully the relations of Ireland with the Dalriadan colony established in Western Scotland a hundred years before . Columba came from Iona in behalf of Aidan , whom he had crowned a short time previously as King of Albania or Scotland . It seems that the bards or poets were accused of insolence , rapacity , and of selling their services to princes and nobles , instead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ openly undertook their defence in the general assembly of the nation . Himself a poet , he loved their art , and could not consent to see his native country deprived of it . Such a deprivation in his eyes would almost have seemed a sacrilege . " He represented , " says Montalembert , " that care must be taken not to pull up the good corn with the tares , that the general exile of the poets would be the death of a venerable antiquity , and of that poetry so dear to the country , and so useful to those who knew how to employ it . The king and assembly yielded at length , under condition that the number should be limited , and their profession laid under certain rules . " Dallan Fergall , the chief of the corporation , composed his " Amhra , " or Praise of Columbkill , as a mark of gratitude from the whole order . That the works of Celtic poets possessed real literary merit , we have the authority of Spenser for believing . The author of the " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , whom he assisted in plundering and destroying under Elizabeth . He could only judge of their books from English translations , not being sufficiently acquainted with the language to understand its niceties . Yet he had to acknowledge that their poems " savoured of sweet wit and good invention , but skilled not of the goodly ornaments of poetry ; yet were they sprinkled with some pretty flowers of their natural device , which gave good grace and comeliness to them . " He objected , it is true , to the patriotism of their verse , and pretended that they " seldom choose the doings of good men for the argument of their poems , " and became " dangerous and desperate in disobedience and rebellious daring . " But this accusation is high praise in our eyes , as showing that the Irish bards of Spenser 's time praised and glorified those who proved most courageous in resisting English invasion , and stood firmly on the side of their race against the power of a great queen . A poet , it seems , required twelve years of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that time was devoted to practising the " Teinim Laegha , " by which he obtained the power of understanding every thing that it was proper for him to speak of or to say . The next third was employed in learning the " Imas Forosnadh , " by which he was enabled to communicate thoroughly his knowledge to other pupils . Finally , the last three years were occupied in " Dichedal , " or improvisation , so as to be able to speak in verse on all subjects of his study at a moment 's notice . There were , it appears , seven kinds of verse ; and the poet was bound to possess a critical knowledge of them , so as to be a judge of his art , and to pronounce on the compositions submitted to him . If called upon by any king or chieftain , he was required to relate instantly , seven times fifty stories , namely , five times fifty prime stories , and twice fifty secondary stories . The prime stories were destructions and preyings , courtships , battles , navigations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conflagrations . All those literary compositions were historic tales ; and they were not composed for mere amusement , but possessed in the eyes of learned men a real authority in point of fact . If fancy was permitted to adorn them , the facts themselves were to remain unaltered with their chief circumstances . Hence the writers of the various annals of Ireland do not scruple to quote many poems or other tales as authority for the facts of history which they relate . And such also was heroic poetry among the Greeks . The Hellenic philosophers , historians , and geographers of later times always quoted Homer and Hesiod as authorities for the facts they related in their scientific works . The whole first book of the geography of Strabo , one of the most statistical and positive works of antiquity , has for its object the vindication of the geography of Homer , whom Strabo seems to have considered as a reliable authority on almost every possible subject . Our limits forbid us to speak more in detail of Celtic historians and poets . We have said enough @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the social system of the country , and , while keeping within due bounds , they were esteemed by all as men of great weight and use to the nation . Besides the field of genealogy and history allotted to them to cultivate , their very office tended to promote the love of virtue , and to check immorality and vice . They were careful to watch over the acts and inclinations of their princes and chieftains , seldom failing to brand them with infamy if guilty of crimes , or crown them with honor when they had deserved well of the nation . In ancient Egypt the priests judged the kings after their demise ; in Celtic countries they dared to tell them the truth during their lifetime . And this exercised a most salutary effect on the people ; for perhaps never in any other country did the admiration for learning , elevation of feeling , and ardent love of justice and right , prevail as in Ireland , at least while enjoying its native institutions and government . From many of the previous details , the reader @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ features peculiar to Their race , and which supposed a mental constitution seldom found among others . If , in general , the world of letters gives expression In some degree to social wants and habits , among the Celts this expression was complete , and argued a peculiar bent of mind given entirely to traditional lore , and never to philosophical speculations and subtlety . We see in it two elements remarkable for their distinctness . First , an extraordinary fondness for facts and traditions , growing out of the patriarchal origin of society among them ; and from this fondness their mind received a particular tendency which was averse to theories and utopias . All things resolved themselves into facts , and they seldom wandered away into the fields of conjectural conclusions . Hence their extraordinary adaptation to the truths of the Christian religion , whose dogmas are all supernatural facts , at once human and divine . Hence have they ever been kept free from that strange mental activity of other European races , which has led them into doubt , unbelief , skepticism , until , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fixed principles as a substratum for religious and social doctrines . Secondly , we see in the Celtic race a rare and unique outburst of fancy , so well expressed in the " Senchus Mor , " their great law compilation , wherein it is related , that when St. Patrick had completed the digest of the laws of the Gael in Ireland , Dubtach , who was a bard as well as a brehon , " put a thread of poetry round it . " Poetry everywhere , even in a law-book ; poetry inseparable from their thoughts , their speech , their every-day actions ; poetry became for them a reality , an indispensable necessity of life . This feature is also certainly characteristic of the Celtic nature . Hence their literature was inseparable from art ; and music and design gushed naturally from the deepest springs of their souls . Music has always been the handmaid of Poetry ; and in our modern languages , even , which are so artificial and removed from primitive enthusiasm and naturalness , no composer of opera would consent to adapt his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so in primitive times ; and it maybe said that in those days poetry was never composed unless to be sung or played on instruments . But what has never been seen elsewhere , what Plato dreamed , without ever hoping to see realized , music in Celtic countries became really a state institution , and singers and harpers were necessary officers of princes and kings . That all Celtic tribes were fond of it and cultivated it thoroughly we have the assertion of all ancient writers who spoke of them . According to Strabo , the Third order of Druids was composed of those whom he calls Umnetai . What were their instruments is not mentioned ; and we can now form no opinion of their former musical taste from the rude melodies of the Armoricans , Welsh , and Scotch . From time immemorial the Irish Celts possessed the harp . Some authors have denied this ; and from the fact that the harp was unknown to the Greeks and Romans , and that the Gauls of the time of Julius Caesar do not seem to have been acquainted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ native to any of the British islands . But modern researches have proved that it was certainly used in Erin under the first successors of Ugaine Mor , who was monarch .  --  Ard-Righ  --  about the year 633 before Christ , according to the annals of the Four Masters . The story of Labhraid , which seems perfectly authentic , turns altogether on the perfection with which Craftine played on the harp . From that time , at least , the instrument became among the Celts of Ireland a perpetual source of melody . To judge of their proficiency in its use , it is enough to know to what degree of perfection they had raised it . Mr. Beauford , in his ingenious and learned treatise on the music of Ireland , as cultivated by its bards , creates genuine astonishment by the discoveries into which his researches have led him . The extraordinary attention which they paid to expression and effect brought about successive improvements in the harp , which at last made it far superior to the Grecian lyre . To make it capable of supporting the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intervals of the fifths and thirds in each scale , and increased the number of strings from eighteen to twenty-eight , retaining all the original chromatic tones , but reducing the capacity of the instrument ; for , instead of commencing in the lower E in the bass , it commenced in C , a sixth above , and terminated in G in the octave below ; and , in consequence , the instrument became much more melodious and capable of accompanying the human voice . Malachi O'Morgair , Archbishop of Armagh , introduced other improvements in it in the twelfth century . Finally , in later times , its capacity was increased from twenty-eight strings to thirty-three , in which state it still remains . As long as the nation retained its autonomy , the harp was a universal instrument among the inhabitants of Erin . It was found in every house ; it was heard wherever you met a few people gathered together . Studied so universally , so completely and perfectly , it gave Irish music in the middle ages a superiority over that of all other nations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of these people to musical instruments is worthy of praise , in which their skill is , beyond comparison , superior to any other people ; for in these the modulation is not slow and solemn , as in the instruments of Britain , but the sounds are rapid and precipitate , yet sweet and pleasing . It is extraordinary , in such rapidity of the fingers , how the musical proportions are preserved , and the art everywhere inherent among their complicated modulations , and the multitude of intricate notes so sweetly swift , so irregular in their composition , so disorderly in their concords , yet returning to unison and completing the melody . " Giraldus could not express himself better , never before having heard any other music than that of the Anglo-Normans ; but it is clear , from the foregoing passage , that Irish art surpassed all his conceptions . The universality of song among the Irish Celts grew out of their nature , and in time brought out all the refinements of art . Long before Cambrensis 's time the whole island resounded with music @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could not better express his gratitude to his Thomond subjects than by exclaiming  --  " May our truest fidelity ever be given To the brave and generous clansmen of Tal ; And forever royalty rest with their tribe , And virtue and valor , and music and song ! " Long before Cormac , we find the same mirthful glee in the Celtic character expressed by a beautiful and well-known passage in the life of St. Bridget : Being yet an unknown girl , she entered , by chance , the dwelling of some provincial king , who was at the time absent , and , getting hold of a harp , her fingers ran over the chords , and her voice rose in song and glee , and the whole family of the royal children , excited by the joyful harmony , surrounded her , immediately grew familiar with her , and treated her as an elder sister whom they might have known all their life ; so that the king , coming back , found all his house in an uproar , filled as it was with music and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Never in the whole history of man has the same been the case with any other nation . Plato , no doubt , in his dream of a republic , had something of the kind in his mind , when he wished to constitute harmony as a social and political institution . But he little thought that , when he thus dreamed and wrote , or very shortly after , the very object of his speculation was already , or was soon to be , in actual existence in the most western isle of Europe . Before Columba 's time even the Church had become reconciled to the bards and harpers ; and , according to a beautiful legend , Patrick himself had allowed Oisin , or Ossian , and his followers , to sing the praises of ancient heroes . But Columbkill completed the reconciliation of the religious spirit with the bardic influence . Music and poetry were thenceforth identified with ecclesiastical life . Monks and grave bishops played on the harp in the churches , and it is said that this strange spectacle surprised the first Norman invaders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so well adapted to our subject : " Irish poetry , which was in the days of Patrick and Columba so powerful and so popular , has long undergone , in the country of Ossian , the same fate as the religion of which these great saints were the apostles . Rooted , like it , in the heart of a conquered people , and like it proscribed and persecuted with an unwearying vehemence , it has come ever forth anew from the bloody furrow in which it was supposed to be buried . The bards became the most powerful allies of patriotism , the most dauntless prophets of independence , and also the favorite victims of the cruelty of spoilers and conquerors . They made music and poetry weapons and bulwarks against foreign oppression ; and the oppressors used them as they had used the priests and the nobles . A price was set upon their heads . But while the last scions of the royal and noble races , decimated or ruined in Ireland , departed to die out under a foreign sky , amid the miseries of exile @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whom nothing could tear from his native soil , was pursued , tracked , and taken like a wild beast , or chained and slaughtered like the most dangerous of rebels . " In the annals of the atrocious legislation , directed by the English against the Irish people , as well before as after the Reformation , special penalties against the minstrels , bards , and rhymers , who sustained the lords and gentlemen , . . . are to be met with at every step . " Nevertheless , the harp has remained the emblem of Ireland , even in the official arms of the British Empire , and during all last century , the travelling harper , last and pitiful successor of the bards , protected by Columba , was always to be found at the side of the priest , to celebrate the holy mysteries of the proscribed worship . He never ceased to be received with tender respect under the thatched roof of the poor Irish peasant , whom he consoled in his misery and oppression by the plaintive tenderness and solemn sweetness of the music @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ set forth in stronger light the Celtic mind and heart as portrayed in those native elements of music and literature ? Could any thing more forcibly depict the real character of the race , materialized , as it were , in its exterior institutions ? We were right in saying that among no other race was what is generally a mere adornment to a nation , raised to the dignity of a social and political instrument as it was among the Celts . Hence it was impossible for persecution and oppression to destroy it , and the Celtic nature to-day is still traditional , full of faith , and at the same time poetical and impulsive as when those great features of the race held full sway . Besides music , several other branches of art , particularly architecture , design , and calligraphy , are worthy our attention , presenting , as they do , features unseen anywhere else ; and would enable us still better to understand the character of the Celtic race . But our limits require us to refrain from what might be thought redundant and unnecessary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of our investigation , one which might be esteemed paramount to all others , and by the consideration of which we might have begun this chapter , only that its importance will be better understood after what has been already said . It is a chief characteristic which grew so perfectly out of the Celtic mind and aptitudes , that long centuries of most adverse circumstances , we may say , a whole host of contrary influences were unable to make the Celts entirely abandon it . We mean the clan system , which , as a system , indeed , has disappeared these three centuries ago , but which may be said to subsist still in the clan spirit , as ardent almost among them as ever . It is beyond doubt that the patriarchal government was the first established among men . The father ruled the family . As long as he lived he was lawgiver , priest , master ; his power was acknowledged as absolute . Hiis children , even after their marriage , remained to a certain extent subject to him . Yet each became in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the primitive simplicity of the first family . In the East , history shows us that the patriarchal government was succeeded immediately by an extensive and complete despotism . Millions of men soon became the abject slaves of an irresponsible monarch . Assyria , Babylonia , Egypt , appear at once in history as powerful states at the mercy of a despot whose will was law . But in other more favored lands the family was succeeded by the tribe , a simple development of the former , an agglomeration of men of the same blood , who could all trace their pedigree to the acknowledged head ; possessing , consequently , a chief of the same race , either hereditary or elective , according to variable rules always based on tradition . This was the case among the Jews , among the Arabs , with whom the system yet prevails ; even it seems primitively in Hindostan , where modern research has brought to light modes of holding property which suppose the same system . But especially was this the case among the Celts , where the system having subsisted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all its details . Indeed , their adherence to it , in spite of every obstacle that could oppose it , shows that it was natural to them , congenial to all their inclinations , the only system that could satisfy and make them happy ; consequently , a characteristic of the race . There was a time when the system we speak of ruled many a land , from the Western Irish Sea to the foot of the Caucasus . Everywhere within those limits it presented the same general features ; in Ireland alone has it been preserved in all its vigor until the beginning of the seventeenth century , so rooted was it in the Irish blood . Consequently , it can be studied better there . What we say , therefore , will be chiefly derived from the study of Irish customs , although other Gaelic tribes will also furnish us with data for our observations . In countries ruled by the clan system , the territory was divided among the clans , each of them occupying a particular district , which was seldom enlarged or diminished . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in the British islands . Hence their hostile encounters had always for object movable plunder of any kind , chiefly cattle ; never conquest nor annexation of territory . The word " preying , " which is generally used for their expeditions , explains their nature at once . It was only in the event of the extinction of a clan that the topography was altered , and frequently a general repartition of land among neighboring tribes took place . It is true , when a surplus population compelled them to send abroad swarms of their youth , that the conquest of a foreign country became an absolute necessity . But , on such occasions it was outside of Celtic limits that they spread themselves , taking possession of a territory not their own . They almost invariably respected the land of other clans of the same race , even when most hostile to them ; exceptions to this rule are extremely rare . It was thus that they sent large armies of their young men into Northern Italy , along the Danube , into Grecian Albania and Thrace , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The fixing of the geographical position of each tribe was , therefore , a rule among them ; and in this they differed from nomadic nations , such as the Tartars in Asia and even the North American Indians , whose hold on the land was too slight to offer any prolonged resistance to invaders . Hence the position of the Gallic civitates was definite , and , so to speak , immovable , as we may see by consulting the maps of ancient Gaul at any time anterior to its thorough conquest by the Romans ; not so among the German tribes , whose positions on the maps must differ according to time . We have already seen that so sacred were the limits of the clan districts , that one of the chief duties of ollamhs and shanachies was to know them and see them preserved . But if territory was defined in Celtic nations , the right of holding land differed in the case of the chieftain and the clansman . The head of the tribe had a certain well-defined portion assigned to him in virtue of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; the clansmen held the remainder in common , no particular spot being assigned to any one of them . As far , therefore , as the holding of land was concerned , there were neither rich nor poor among the Celts ; the wealth of the best of them consisted of cattle , house furniture , money , jewelry , and other movable property . In the time of St. Columba , the owner of five cows was thought to be a very poor man , although he could send them to graze on any free land of his tribe . There is no doubt that the almost insurmountable difficulty of the land question at this time originated in the attachment of the people to the old system , which had not yet perished in their affections ; and certainly many " agrarian outrages , " as they are called , have had their source in the traditions of a people once accustomed to move and act freely in a free territory . It is needless to call the attention of the reader to another consequence of that state of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ As no individual among them could alienate his portion , no individual or family could absorb the territory to the exclusion of others ; no great landed aristocracy consequently could exist , and no part of the land could pass by purchase or in any other way to a different tribe or to an alien race . The force of arms sometimes produced temporary changes , nothing more . It is the same principle which has preserved the small Indian tribes still existing in Canada . Their " reservations , " as they are called , having been legalized by the British Government at the time of the conquest from the French , the territory assigned to them would have remained in their occupancy forever in the midst of the ever-shifting possessions of the white race , had not the Ottawa Parliament lately " allowed " those reservations to be divided among the families of the tribes , with power for each to dispose of its portion , a power which will soon banish them from the country of their ancestors . The preceding observations do not conflict in the least @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kind , " whereby the property was equally divided among the sons to the exclusion of the daughters ; as it is clear that the property to be thus divided was only movable and personal property . But after the land we must consider the persons under the clan-system . Under this head we shall examine briefly : I. The political offices , such as the dignities of Ard-Righ or supreme monarch , of the provincial kings , and of the subordinate chieftains . II . The state of the common people . III . The bondsmen or slaves . All literary or civil offices , not political , were hereditary . Hence the professions of ollamh , shanachy , bard , brehon , physician , passed from father to son  --  a very injudicious arrangement apparently , but it seems nevertheless to have worked well in Ireland . Strange to say , however , these various classes formed no castes as in Egypt or in India , because no one was prevented from embracing those professions , even when not born to them ; and , in the end , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ highest round of the literary or professional ladder , as in China . But a stranger and more dangerous feature of the system was that in political offices the dignities were hereditary as to the family , elective as to the person . Hence the title of Ard-Righ or supreme monarch did not necessarily pass to the eldest son of the former king , but another member of the same family might be elected to the office , and was even designated to it during the lifetime of the actual holder , thus becoming Tanist or heir-apparent . Every one sees at a glance the numberless disadvantages resulting from such an institution , and it must be said that most of the bloody crimes recorded in Irish history sprang from it . At first sight , the dignity of supreme monarch would almost seem to be a sinecure under the clan system , as the authority attached to it was extremely limited , and is generally compared in its relations to the subordinate kings , as that of metropolitan to suffragan bishops in the Church . Nevertheless , all Celtic nations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the real misfortunes of Ireland began when contention ran so high for the office that the people were divided in their supreme allegiance , and no Ard-Righ was acknowledged at the same time by all ; which happened precisely at the period of the invasion under Strongbow . Some few facts lately brought to light in the vicissitudes of various branches of the Celtic family show at once how highly all Celts , wherever they might be settled , esteemed the dignity of supreme monarch . It existed , as we have said , in all Celtic countries , and consequently in Gaul ; and the passage in the " Commentaries " of Julius Caesar on the subject is too important to be entirely passed over . After having remarked in the eleventh chapter , " De Bello Gallico , " lib. vi. , that in Gaul the whole country , each city or clan , and every subdivision of it , even to single houses , presented the strange spectacle of two parties , " factiones , " always in presence of and opposed to each other , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Caesar in Gaul the Eduans and the Sequanians were contending for the supreme authority  --  " The latter civitas  --  clan  - -  namely , the Sequanians , being inferior in power  --  because from time immemorial the supreme authority had been vested in the Eduans  --  had called to its aid the Germans under Ariovist by the inducement of great advantages and promises . After many successful battles , in which the entire nobility of the Eduan clan perished , the Sequanians acquired so much power that they rallied to themselves the greatest number of the allies of their rivals , obliged the Eduans to give as hostages the children of their nobles who had perished , to swear that they would not attempt any thing against their conquerors , and even took possession of a part of their territory , and thus obtained the supreme command of all Gaul . " We see by this passage that there was a supremacy resting in the hands of some one , over the whole nation . The successful tribe had a chief to whom that supremacy belonged . Caesar , it is true @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ person , but attributes the power to the " civitas , " the tribe . It is well known , however , that each tribe had a head , and that in Celtic countries the power was never vested in a body of men , assembly , committee , or board , as we say in modern times , but in the chieftain , whatever may have been his degree . The author of the " Commentaries " was a Roman in whose eyes the state was every thing , the actual office-holder , dictator , consul , or praetor , a mere instrument for a short time ; and he was too apt , like most of his countrymen , to judge of other nations by his own . We may conclude from the passage quoted that there was a supreme monarch in Gaul as well as in Ireland , and modern historians of Gaul have acknowledged it . But there is yet a stranger fact , which absolutely can not be explained , save on the supposition that the Celts everywhere held the supreme dignity of extreme if not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the preeminence it deserves , we must refer to a subsequent event in the history of the Celts in Britain , since it happened there several centuries after Caesar , and we will quote the words of Augustin Thierry , who relates it : " After the retreat of the legions , recalled to Italy to protect the centre of the empire and Rome itself against the invasion of the Goths , the Britons ceased to acknowledge the power of the foreign governors set over their provinces and cities . The forms , the offices , the very spirit and language of the Roman administration disappeared ; in their place was reconstituted the traditional authority of the clannish chieftains formerly abolished by Roman power . Ancient genealogies carefully preserved by the poets , called in the British language bairdd - bards - helped to discover those who could pretend to the dignity of chieftains of tribes or families , tribe and family being synonymous in their language ; and the ties of relationship formed the basis of their social state . Men of the lowest class , among that people , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a care scarcely known to other nations , among the highest lords and princes . All the British Celts , poor or rich , had to establish their genealogy in order fully to enjoy their civil rights and secure their claim of property in the territory of the tribe . The whole belonging to a primitive family , no one could lay any claim to the soil , unless his relationship was well established . " At the top of this social order , composing a federation of small hereditary sovereignties , the Britons , freed from Roman power , constituted a high national sovereignty ; they created a chieftain of chieftains , in their tongue called Penteyrn , that is to say , a king of the whole , in the language of their old annals . And they made him elective.  --  It was also formerly the custom in Gaul .  --  The object was to introduce into their system a kind of centralization , which , however , was always loose among Celtic tribes . "  --  ( Conquete de l'Angleterre , liv . i . ) It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supreme power , when freed from the Roman yoke , it was only because they had possessed it before they became subject to that yoke . It is , therefore , safe to conclude that there was a supreme monarch in Britain and in Gaul as well as in Ireland ; and since the Britons , after having lost for several centuries their autonomy of government , thought of reestablishing this supreme authority as soon as they were free to do so , it is clear that they attached a real importance to it , and that it entered as an essential element into the social fabric . But what in reality was the authority of the Ard-Righ in Ireland , of the Penteyrn in Britain , of the supreme chief in Gaul , whose name , as usual , is not mentioned by Caesar ? First , it is to be remarked that a certain extent of territory was always under his immediate authority . Then , as far as we can gather from history , there was a reciprocity of obligations between the high power and the subordinate kings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who in turn paid tribute to support the munificence or military power of the former . We know from the Irish annals that the dignity of Ard-Righ was always sustained by alliances with some of the provincial kings , to secure the submission of others , and we have a hint of the same nature in the passage , already quoted , from Caesar , as also taking place in Gaul . We know also from the " Book of Rights " that the tributes and stipends consisted of bondsmen , silver shields , embroidered cloaks , cattle , weapons , corn , victuals , or any other contribution . The Ard-Righ , moreover , convened the Feis , or general assembly of the nation , every third year ; first at Tara , and after Tara was left to go to ruin in consequence of the curse of St. Ruadhan in the sixth century , wherever the supreme monarch established his residence . The order of succession to the supreme power was the weakest point of the Irish constitution , and became the cause of by far the greatest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ son  --  some say the eldest relative  --  of the monarch succeeded him , when he had no blemish constituting a radical defect : the supreme power , however , alternating in two families . To secure the succession , the heir-apparent was always declared during the life of the supreme king ; but this constitutional arrangement caused , perhaps , more crimes and wars than any other social institution among the Celts . The truth is that , after the heir-apparent , sustained by some provincial king , supplanted the reigning monarch , one of the provincial chieftains claimed the crown and succeeded to it by violence . Yet the general rule that the monarch was to belong to the race of Miledh was adhered to almost without exception . One hundred and eighteen sovereigns , according to the moat accredited annals , governed the whole island from the Milesian conquest to St. Patrick in 432 . Of these , sixty were of the family of Heremon , settled in the northern part of the island ; twenty-nine of the posterity of Heber , settled in the south ; twenty-four @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the son of Ith . All these were of the race of Miledh ; one only was a firbolg , or plebeian , and one a woman . It is certainly very remarkable that for so long a time  --  nearly two thousand years , according to the best chronologists  --  Ireland was ruled by princes of the same family . The fact is unparalleled in history , and shows that the people were firmly attached to their constitution , such as it was . It extorted the admiration of Sir John Davies , the attorney-general of James I , and later of Lord Coke . The functions of the provincial kings of Ulster , Munster , Leinster , and Connaught , were in their several districts the same as those which the Ard-Righ exercised over the whole country . They also had their feuds and alliances with the inferior chieftains , and in peaceful times there was also a reciprocity of obligations between them . Presents were given by the superiors , tributes by the inferiors ; deliberations in assembly , mutual agreement for public defence , wars against a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ generally followed , or occasional dissensions . Sometimes a province had two kings , chiefly Munster , which was often divided into north and south . Each king had his heir-apparent , the same as the monarch . Indeed , every hereditary office had , besides its actual holder , its Tanist , with right of succession . Hence causes of division and feuds were needlessly multiplied ; yet all the Celtic tribes adhered tenaciously to all those institutions which appeared rooted in their very nature , and which contributed to foster the traditional spirit among them . For these various offices and their inherent rights were all derived from the universally prevailing family or clannish disposition . Genealogies and traditions ruled the whole , and gave , as we have seen , to their learned men a most important part and function in the social state ; and thus what the Greek and Latin authors , Julius Caesar principally , have told us of the Celtic Druids , is literally true of the ollamhs in their various degrees . But the clannish spirit chiefly showed itself in the authority and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was truly the patriarch of all under him , acknowledged as he was to be the head of the family , elected by all to that office at the death of his predecessor , after due consultation with the files and shanachies , to whom were intrusted the guardianship of the laws which governed the clan , and the preservation of the rights of all according to the strict order of their genealogies and the traditional rules to be observed . The power of the chieftain was immense , although limited on every side by laws and customs . It was based on the deep affection of relationship which is so ardent in the Celtic nature . For all the clansmen were related by blood to the head of the tribe , and each one took a personal pride in the success of his undertakings . No feudal lord could ever expect from his vassals the like self-devotion ; for , in feudalism , the sense of honor , in clanship , family affection , was the chief moving power . In clanship the type was not an army , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , doubtless , gave rise to many inconveniences . " The breaking up of all general authority , " says the Very Rev. Dean Butler ( Introduction to Clyn 's " Annals " ) , " and the multiplication of petty independent principalities , was an abuse incident on feudalism ; it was inherent in the very essence of the patriarchal or family system . It began , as feudalism ended , with small independent societies , each with its own separate centre of attraction , each clustering round the lord or the chief , and each rather repelling than attracting all similar societies . Yet it was not without its advantages . If feudalism gave more strength to attack an enemy , clanship secured more happiness at home . The first implied only equality for the few , serfdom or even slavery for the many ; the other gave a feeling of equality to all . " It was , no doubt , this feeling of equality , joined to that of relationship , which not only secured more happiness for the Celt , but which so closely bound the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gave these latter so ardent an affection for their chieftains . Clanship , therefore , imparted a peculiar character to the whole race , and its effect was so lasting and seemingly ineradicable as to be seen in the nation to-day . Wherever feudalism previously prevailed , we remark at this time a fearful hatred existing between the two classes of the same nation ; and the great majority of modern revolutions had their origin in that terrible antagonism . The same never existed , and could not exist , in Celtic Countries ; and if England , after a conflict of many centuries , had not finally succeeded in destroying or exiling the entire nobility of Ireland , we should , doubtless , see to this very day that tender attachment between high and low , rich and poor , which existed in the island in former ages . This , therefore , not only imparted a peculiar character to the people , but also gave to each subordinate chieftain an immense power over his clan ; and it is doubtful if the whole history of the country can afford @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chief , unless in the case of great criminals placed by their atrocities under the ban of society in former times , and under the ban of the Church , since the establishment of the Christian religion among them . The previous observations give us an insight into the state of the people in Celtic countries . Since , however , we know that slavery existed among them , we must consider a moment what kind of slavery it was , and how soon it disappeared without passing , as in the rest of Europe , through the ordeal of serfdom . At the outset , we can not , as some have done , call slaves the conquered races and poor Milesians , who , according to the ancient annals of Ireland , rose in insurrection and established a king of their own during what is supposed to be the first century of the Christian era . The attacotts , as they were called , were not slaves , but poor agriculturists obliged to pay heavy rents : their very name in the Celtic language means " rent-paying tribes or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suffering under which the Irish small farmers of our days are groaning . For , according to history , they could in three years prepare from their surplus productions a great feast , to which the monarch and all his chieftains , with their retinue , were invited , to be treacherously assassinated at the end of the banquet . The great plain of Magh Cro , now Moy Cru , near Knockma , in the county of Galway , was required for such a monster feast ; profusion of meats , delicacies , and drinks was , of course , a necessity for the entertainment of such a number of high-born and athletic guests , and the feast lasted nine days . Who can suppose that in our times the free cottiers of a whole province in Ireland , after supporting their families and paying their rent , could spare even in three years the money and means requisite to meet the demands of such an occasion ? But the simple enunciation of the fact proves at least that the attacotts were no slaves , but at most merely an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compelled to pay taxes on land , contrary to the universal custom of Celtic countries . Caesar , it is true , pretends that real slavery existed among the Celts in Gaul . But a close examination of that short passage in his " Commentaries , " upon which this opinion is based , will prove to us that the slavery he mentions was a very different thing from that existing among all other nations of antiquity . " All over Gaul , " he says , " there are two classes of men who enjoy all the honors and social standing in the state  --  the Druids and the knights . The plebeians are looked upon almost as slaves , having no share in public affairs . Many among them , loaded with debt , heavily taxed , or oppressed by the higher class , give themselves in servitude to the nobility , and then , in hos eadem omnia sunt jura quoe dominis in servos , the nobles lord it over them as , with us , masters over their slaves . " It is clear from this very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as among the Romans and other nations of antiquity . The plebeians , as Caesar calls them , that is to say , the simple clansmen , held no office in the state , were not summoned to the councils of the nation , and , on that account , were nobodies in the opinion of the writer . But the very name he gives them - plebs - shows that they were no more real slaves than the Roman plebs . They exercised their functions in the state by the elections , and Caesar did not know they could reach public office by application to study , and by being ordained to the rank of file , or shanachy , or brehon , in Ireland , at least : and this gave them a direct share in public affairs . He adds that debt , taxation , and oppression , obliged a great many to give themselves in servitude , and that then they were among the Celts what slaves were among the Romans . This assertion of Caesar requires some examination . That there were slaves among the Gaels @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passages of old writers preserved in the various annals of the country . St. Patrick himself was a slave there in his youth , and we learn from his history and other sources how slaves were generally procured , namely , by piratical expeditions to the coast of Britain or Gaul . The Irish curraghs , in pagan times , started from the eastern or southern shores of the island , and , landing on the continent or on some British isle , they captured women , children , and even men , when the crew of the craft was strong enough to overcome them ; the captives were then taken to Ireland and sold there . They lost their rights , were reduced to the state of " chattels , " and thus became real slaves . Among the presents made by a superior to an inferior chieftain are mentioned bondsmen and bondsmaids . We can not be surprised at this , since the same thing took place among the most ancient patriarchal tribes of the East , and the Bible has made us all acquainted with the male and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who are also called bondsmen and bondswomen . Among the Celts , therefore , slaves were of two kinds : those stolen from foreign tribes , and those who had , as it were , sold themselves , in order to escape a heavier oppression : these latter are the ones mentioned by Caesar . The number of the first class must always have been very small , at least in Ireland and Britain , since the piratical excursions of the Celtic tribes inhabiting those countries were almost invariably undertaken in curraghs , which could only bring a few of these unfortunate individuals from a foreign country . As to the other class , whatever Caesar may say of their number in Gaul , making it composed of the greatest part of the plebeians or common clansmen , we have no doubt but that he was mistaken , and that the number of real slaves reduced to that state by their own act must have always been remarkably small . How could we otherwise account for the numerous armies levied by the Gaulish chieftains against the power of Rome , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wars ? The clansmen engaged in both cases were certainly freemen , fighting with the determination which freedom alone can give , and this consideration of itself suffices to show that the great mass of the Celtic tribes was never reduced to slavery or even to serfdom . Moreover , the whole drift of the Irish annals goes to prove that slavery never included any perceptible class of the Celtic population ; it always remained individual and domestic , never endangering the safety of the state , never tending to insurrection and civil disorder , never requiring the vigilance nor even the care of the masters and lords . The story of Libran , recorded in the life of St. Columbkill , is so pertinent to our present purpose , and so well adapted to give us a true idea of what voluntary slavery was among the Celtic tribes , that we will give it entire in the words of Montalembert : " It was one day announced to Columba in Iona that a stranger had just landed from Ireland , and Columba went to meet him in the house reserved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ question him as to his dwelliing-place , his family , and the cause of his journey . The stranger told him that he had undertaken this painful voyage in order , under the monastic habit and in exile , to expiate his sins . Columba , desirous of trying the reality of his repentance , drew a most repulsive picture of the hardships and difficult obligations of the new life . ' I am ready , ' said the stranger , ' to submit to the most cruel and humiliating conditions that thou canst command me . ' And , after having made confession , he swore , still upon his knees , to accomplish all the requirements of penitence . ' It is well , ' said the abbot : ' now rise from thy knees , seat thyself , and listen . You must first do penance for seven years in the neighboring island of Tirce , after which I will see you again . ' ' But , ' said the penitent , still agitated by remorse , ' how can I expiate a perjury of which I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I killed a poor man . I was about to suffer the punishment of death for that crime , and I was already in irons , when one of my relatives , who is very rich , delivered me by paying the composition demanded . I swore that I would serve him all my life ; but , after some days of service , I abandoned him , and here I am notwithstanding my oath . ' Upon this the saint added that he would only be admitted to the paschal communion after his seven years of penitence . " When these were completed , Columba , after having given him the communion with his own hand , sent him back to Ireland to his patron , carrying a sword with an ivory handle for his ransom . The patron , however , moved by the entreaties of his wife , gave the penitent his pardon without ransom . ' Why should we accept the price sent us by the holy Columba ? We are not worthy of it . The request of such an intercessor should be granted freely . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ' And immediately he detached the girdle from his waist , which was the ordinary form in Ireland for the manumission of captives or slaves . Columba had , besides , ordered his penitent to remain with his old father and mother until he had rendered to them the last services . This accomplished , his brothers let him go , saying , ' Far be it from us to detain a man who has labored seven years for the salvation of his soul with the holy Columba ! ' He then returned to Iona , bringing with him the sword which was to have been his ransom . ' Henceforward thou shaft be called Libran , for thou art free and emancipated from all ties , ' said Columba ; and he immediately admitted him to take the monastic vows . " Servitude , therefore , continued in Ireland after the establishment of Christianity ; but how different from the slavery of other European countries , which it took so many ages to destroy , and which had to pass through so many different stages ! Although we can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Celts , the total silence of the contemporary annals on the subject justifies the belief that the Danes , on their first landing , found no real slaves in the country ; and , if the Danes themselves oppressed the people wherever they established their power , they could not make a social institution of slavery . It had never been more than a domestic arrangement ; it could not become a state affair , as among the nations of antiquity . In clannish tribes , therefore , and particularly among the Celts , the personal freedom of the lowest clansman was the rule , deprivation of individual liberty the exception . Hence the manners of the people were altogether free from the abject deportment of slaves and villeins in other nations  --  a cringing disposition of the lower class toward their superiors , which continues even to this day among the peasantry of Europe , and which patriarchal nations have never known . The Norman invaders of Ireland , in the twelfth century , were struck with the easy freedom of manner and speech of the people , so different @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They soon even came to like it ; and the supercilious followers of Strongbow readily adopted the dress , the habits , the language , and the good-humor of the Celts , in the midst of whom they found themselves settled . And it is proper here to show what social dispositions and habits were the natural result of the clan system , so as to become characteristic of the race , and to endure forever , as long at least as the race itself . The artless family state of the sept naturally developed a peculiarly social feeling , much less complicated than in nations more artificially constituted , but of a much deeper and more lasting character . In the very nature of the mind of those tribes there must have been a great simplicity of ideas , and on that account an extraordinary tenacity of belief and will . There is no complication and systematic combination of political , moral , and social views , but a few axioms of life adhered to with a most admirable energy ; and we therefore find a singleness of purpose , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the individuals of the tribe . As nothing is complicated and systematized among them , the political system must be extremely simple , and based entirely on the family . And family ideas being as absolute as they are simple , the political system also becomes absolute and lasting ; without improving , it is true , but also without the constant changes which bring misery with revolution to thoughtful , reflective , and systematic nations . What a frightful amount of misfortunes has not logic , as it is called , brought upon the French ! It was in the name of logical and metaphysical principles that the fabric of society was destroyed a hundred years ago , to make room for what was then called a more rationally-constituted edifice ; but the new building is not yet finished , and God only knows when it will be ! The few axioms lying at the base of the Celtic mind with respect to government are much preferable , because much more conducive to stability , and consequently to peace and order , whatever may have been the local agitation and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the supreme authority resting in one family among the Celts through so many ages , in spite of continual wrangling for that supreme power . Hence the permanence of territorial limits in spite of lasting feuds , although territory was not invested in any particular inheriting family , but in a purely moral being called the clan or sept . As for the moral and social feelings in those tribes , they are not drawn coldly from the mind , and sternly imposed by the external law , in the form of axioms and enactments , as was the case chiefly in Sparta , and as is still the case in the Chinese Empire to-day ; but they gush forth impetuously from impulsive and loving hearts , and spread like living waters which no artificially-cut stones can bank and confine , but which must expand freely in the land they fertilize . Deep affection , then , is with them at the root of all moral and social feelings ; and as all those feelings , even the national and patriotic , are merged in real domestic sentiment , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being so conducive thereto as family affections . Above all , when those purely-natural dispositions are raised to the level of the supernatural ones by a divinely-inspired code , by the sublime elevation of Christian purity , then can there be found nothing on earth more lovely and admirable . Chastity is always attractive to a pure heart ; patriarchal guilelessness becomes sacred even to the corrupt , if not altogether hardened , man . Of course we do not pretend that this happy state of things is without its exceptions ; that the light has no shadow , the beauty no occasional blemish . We speak of the generality , or at least of the majority , of cases ; for perfection can not belong to this world . Yet mysticism is entirely absent from such a moral and religious state , on account , perhaps , of the paucity of ideas by which the heart is ruled , and perhaps also on account of the artless simplicity which characterizes every thing in primitively-constituted nations . And , wonderful to say , without any mysticism there is often among them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ circumstances , climates , and associations . The same heart of a young maiden is capable of embracing a married life or of devoting itself to religious celibacy ; and in either case the duties of each are performed with the most perfect simplicity and the highest sanctity . Hence , how often does a trifling circumstance determine for her her whole subsequent life , and make her either the mother of a family or the devoted spouse of Christ ! Yet , the final determination once taken , the whole after-life seems to have been predetermined from infancy as though no other course could have been possible . There is no doubt that sensual corruption is particularly engendered by an artificial state of society , which necessarily fosters morbidity of imagination and nervous excitability . A primitive and patriarchal life , on the contrary , leads to moderation in all things , and repose of the senses . Herein is found the explanation of the eagerness with which the Celts everywhere , but particularly in Ireland , as soon as Christianity was preached to them , rushed to a life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surprise , and showed , by several words in his " Confessio , " that he was scarcely prepared for it . " The sons of Irishmen , " he says , " and the daughters of their chieftains , want to become monks and virgins of Christ . " We know what a multitude of monasteries and nunneries sprang up all over the island in the very days of the first apostle and of his immediate successors . Montalembert remarks that , according to the most reliable and oldest documents , a religious house is scarcely mentioned which contained less than three thousand monks or nuns . It appeared to be a consecrated number ; and this took place immediately after the conversion of the island to Christianity , while even still a great number were pagans . " There was particularly , " says St. Patrick , " one blessed Irish girl , gentle born , most beautiful , already of a marriageable age , whom I had baptized . After a few days she came back and told me that a messenger of God had appeared to her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and live united to God . Thanks be to the Almighty ! Six days after , she obtained , with the greatest joy and avidity , what she wished . The same must be said of all the virgins of God ; their parents  --  those remaining pagans , no doubt  --  instead of approving of it , persecute them , and load them with obloquy ; yet their number increases constantly ; and , indeed , of all those that have been thus born to Christ , I can not give the number , besides those living in holy widowhood , and keeping continency in the midst of the world . " But those girls chiefly suffer most who are bound to service ; they are often subjected to terrors and threats  --  from pagan masters surely  --  yet they persevere . The Lord has given his holy grace of purity to those servant-girls ; the more they are tempted against chastity , the more able they show themselves to keep it . " Does not this passage , written by St. Patrick , describe precisely what is now of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ therefore , were evidently at the time of their conversion what they are now ; and it has been justly remarked that , of all nations whose records have been kept in the history of the Catholic Church , they have been the only ones whose chieftains , princes , even kings , have shown themselves almost as eager to become , not only Christians , but even monks and priests , as the last of their clansmen and vassals . Every where else the lower orders chiefly have furnished the first followers of Christ , the rich and the great being few at the beginning , and forming only the exception . The evident consequence of this well-attested fact is that the pagan Celts , even of the highest rank , generally led pure lives , and admired chastity . But there is something more . Morality rests on the sense of duty ; the deeper that sense is imprinted in the heart of man , the more man becomes truly moral and holy . It can be almost demonstrated that scarcely any thing gives more solidity to the sense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ views of morals being no more complicated than their views of any thing else ; being accustomed to reduce every thing of a spiritual , moral nature to a few feelings and axioms , as it were , but at the same time becoming strongly attached to them on account of the importance which every man naturally bestows on matters of that sort ; what among other nations forms a complicated code of morality more or less pure , more or less corrupt , for the nations of which we speak becomes compressed , so to speak , in a nutshell , and , the essence remaining always at the bottom , the idea of duty grows paramount in their minds and hearts , and every thing they do is illumined by that light of the human conscience , which , after all , is for each one of us the voice of God . False issues do not distract their minds , and give a wrong bias to the conscience . Hence Celtic tribes , by their very nature , were strictly conscientious . So preeminently was this the case @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as they truly are , real and substantial . Hence their religion was not an exterior thing only . On the contrary , exterior rites were in their eyes only symbolical , and mere emblems of the reality which they covered . It should , therefore , be no matter of surprise to us to find that for them religion has always been above all things ; that they have always sacrificed to it whatever is dear to man on earth . They all seem to feel as instinctively and deeply as the thoroughly cultivated and superior mind of Thomas More did , that eternal things are infinitely superior to whatever is temporal , and that a wise man ought to give up every thing rather than be faithless to his religion . From the previous remarks , we map conclude , with Mr. Matthew Arnold , who has applied his critical and appreciative mind to the study of the Celtic character , that " the Celtic genius has sentiment as its main basis , with love of beauty , charm , and spirituality for its excellence , " but , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " On these last words we may be allowed to make a few concluding observations . If by " ineffectualness " is understood that , owing to their impulsive nature , the Celts often attempted more than they could accomplish , and thus failed ; or that on many occasions of less import they changed their mind , and , after a slight effort , did not persevere in an undertaking just begun , there is no doubt of the truth of the observation . But , if the celebrated writer meant to say that this defect of character always accompanied the Celts in whatever they attempted , and that thus they were constantly foiled and never successful in any thing ; or , still worse , that , owing to want of perseverance and of energy , they too soon relaxed in their efforts , and that every enterprise and determination on their part became " ineffectual "  --  we so far disagree with him that the main object of the following pages will be to contradict these positions , and to show by the history of the race @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to their " self-will , " they were never ultimately unsuccessful in their aspirations ; but that , on the contrary , they have always in the end effected what with their accustomed perseverance and self-will they have at all times stood for . At least this we hope will become evident , whenever they had a great object in view , and with respect to things to which they attached a real and paramount importance . CHAPTER II . THE WORLD UNDER THE LEAD OF THE EUROPEAN RACES .  --  MISSION OF THE IRISH RACE IN THE MOVEMENT . " The old prophecies are being fulfilled ; Japhet takes possession of the tents of Sem . "  --  ( De Maistre , Lettre au Comte d'Avaray . ) The following considerations will at once demonstrate the importance and reality of the subject which we have undertaken to treat upon : It was at the second birth of mankind , when the family of Noah , left alone after the flood , was to originate a new state of things , and in its posterity to take possession of all the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alluded to at the head of this chapter was uttered , to be afterward recorded by Moses , and preserved by the Hebrews and the Christians till the end of time . Never before has it been so near its accomplishment as we see it now ; and the great Joseph de Maistre was the first to point this out distinctly . Yet he did not intend to say that it is only in our times that Europe has been placed by Providence at the head of human affairs ; he only meant that what the prophet saw and announced six thousand years ago seems now to be on the point of complete realization . It will be interesting to examine , first , in a general way , how the race of Japhet , to whom Europe was given as a dwelling place , gradually crept more and more into prominence after having at the outset been cast into the shade by the posterity of the two other sons of Noah . The Asiatic and African races , the posterity of Sem and Cham , appear in our days destitute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over foreign races , but even of standing alone and escaping a foreign yoke . It has not been so from the beginning . There was a period of wonderful activity for them . Asia and Africa for many ages were in turn the respective centres of civilization and of human history ; and the material relics of their former energy still astonish all European travellers who visit the Pyramids of Egypt , the obelisks and temples of Nubia and Ethiopia , the immense stone structures of Arabia , Petraea and Persia , as well as the stupendous pagodas of Hindostan . How , under a burning sun , men of those now-despised races could raise structures so mighty and so vast in number ; how the ancestors of the now-wretched Copt , of the wandering Bedouin , of the effete Persian , of the dreamy Hindoo , could display such mental vigor and such physical endurance as the remains of their architectural skill and even of their literature plainly show , is a mystery which no one has hitherto attempted to solve . Nothing in modern Europe , where such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Southern races accomplished thousands of years ago . Ethiopia , now buried in sand and in sleep , was , according to Heeren , the most reliable observer of antiquity in our days , a land of immense commercial enterprise , and wonderful architectural skill and energy . In all probability Egypt received her civilization from this country ; and Homer sings of the renowned prosperity of the long-lived and happy Ethiopians . It is useless to repeat here what we have all learned in our youth of Babylon and Nineveh , in Mesopotamia ; of Persepolis , in fertile and blooming Iran ; of the now ruined mountain-cities of Idumaea and Northern Arabia ; of Thebes and Memphis ; of Thadmor , in Syria ; of Balk and Samarcand , in Central Asia ; of the wonderful cities on the banks of the Ganges and in the southern districts of the peninsula of Hindostan . That the ancestors of the miserable men who continue to exist in all those countries were able to raise fabrics which time seems powerless to destroy , while their descendants can scarcely erect huts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the first breath of the storm , is inexplicable , especially when we take into consideration the principles of the modern doctrine of human progress and the indefinite perfectibility of man . At the time when those Eastern and Southern nations flourished , the sons of Japhet had not yet taken a place in history . Silently and unnoticed they wandered from the cradle of mankind ; and , if scripture had not recorded their names , we should be at a loss to-day to reach back to the origin of European nations . Yet were they destined , according to prophecy , to be the future rulers of the world ; and their education for that high destiny was a rude and painful one , receiving as they did for their share of the globe its roughest portion : an uninterrupted forest covering all their domain from the central plateau which they had left to the shores of the northern and western ocean , their utmost limit . Many branches of that bold race  --  audax Japeti genus  --  fell into a state of barbarism , but a barbarism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Southern origin . With them degradation was not final , as it seems to have been with some branches at least of the other stems . They were always reclaimable , always apt to receive education , and , after having existed for centuries in an almost savage state , they were capable of once more attaining the highest civilization . This the Scandinavian and German tribes have satisfactorily demonstrated . It may even be said that all the branches of the stock of Japhet first fell from their original elevation and passed through real barbarism , to rise again by their own efforts and occupy a prominent position on the stage of history ; and this fact has , no doubt , given rise to the fable of the primitive savage state of all men . That the theory is false is proved at once by the sudden emergence of all Eastern nations into splendor and strength without ever having had barbarous ancestors . But , when they fall , it seems to be forever ; and it looks at least problematical whether Western intercourse , and even the intermixture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Asia . As to their rising of their own accord and assuming once again the lead of the world , no one can for a moment give a second thought to the realization of such a dream . But how and when did the races of Japhet appear first in history ? How and when did the Eastern races begin to fall behind their younger brethren ? A great deal has been written , and with a vast amount of dogmatism , concerning the Pelasgians and their colonizations and conquests on the shore and over the islands of the Mediterranean Sea . But nothing can be proved with certainty in regard to their origin and manners , their rise and fall . In fact , European history begins with that of Greece ; and the struggle between Hellas and Persia is at once the brilliant introduction of the sons of Japhet on the stage of the world  --  the Trojan War being more than half fabulous . The campaigns of Alexander established the supremacy of the West ; and from that epoch the Oriental races begin to fall into that profound @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brilliant activity of the Saracens and Moslems broke for a time  --  now , we must hope , passed away forever . The downfall of the far Orient was not , however , contemporaneous with the supremacy of Greece over the East . The great peninsula of India was still to show for many ages an astonishing activity under the successive sway of the Hindoos , the Patans , the Moguls , and the Sikhs . China also was to continue for a long time an immense and prosperous empire ; but the existence of both these countries was concentrated in themselves , so that the rest of the world felt no result from their internal agitations . Life was gradually ebbing away in the great Mongolian family , and the silent beatings of the pulse that indicated the slow freezing of their blood could neither be heard nor felt beyond their own territorial limits . Nothing new in literature and the arts is visible among them after the appearance , on their western frontiers , of the sons of Japhet , led by the Macedonian hero . It now seems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surprising proof of intellectual life in Hindostan , is anterior to that epoch . As to China , the great discoveries which in the hands of the European races have led to such wonderful results , the mariner 's compass , the printing-press , gunpowder , paper , bank-notes , remained for the Chinese mere toys or without further improvements after their first discovery . It is not known when those great inventions first appeared among them . They had been in operation for ages before Marco Polo saw them in use , and scarcely understood them himself . Europeans were at that time so little prepared for the reception of those material instruments of civilization , that the publication of his travels only produced incredulity with regard to those mighty engines of good or evil . But those very proofs of Oriental ingenuity establish the fact of a point of suspension in mental activity among the nations which discovered them . Its exact date is unknown ; but every thing tends to prove that it took place long ages ago , and nothing is so well calculated to bring home @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trying to establish as the simple mention of the two following phenomena in the life of the most remote Eastern nations : The genius of the East was at one time able to produce literary works of a philosophical and poetical character unsurpassed by those of any other nation . The most learned men of modern times in Europe , when they are in the position to become practically acquainted with them , and peruse them in their original dialects , can scarcely find words to express their astonishment , intimately conversant as they are with the masterpieces of Greece and Rome and of the most polite Christian nations . They find in Sanscrit poems and religious books models of every description ; but they chiefly find in them an abundance , a freshness , a mental energy , which fill them with wonder ; yet all those high intellectual endowments have disappeared ages ago , no one knows how nor precisely when . It is clear that the nation which produced them has fallen into a kind of unconscious stupor , which has been its mental condition ever since , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a giant before the fallen colossus . Again : many ages ago the Mongolian family in China invented many material processes which have been mainly the clause of the rise of Europe in our days . They were really the invention of the Chinese , who neither received them from nor communicated them to any other nation . Ages ago they became known to us accidentally through their instrumentality ; but , as we were not at that time prepared for the adoption of such useful discoveries , their mention in a book then read all over Europe excited only ridicule and unbelief . As soon as the Western mind mastered them of itself , they became straightway of immense importance , and gave rise , we may say , to all that we call modern civilization . But in the hands of the Chinese they remained useless and unproductive , as they are to this day , although they may now see what we have done with them . Their mind , therefore , once active enough to invent mighty instruments of material progress , long ago became perfectly incapable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vessels convey to their astonished sight what was originally theirs , but so improved and altered as to render the original utterly contemptible and ridiculous . And , what is stranger still , though they can compare their own rude implements with ours , and possess a most acute mind in what is materially useful , they can not be brought to confess Western superiority . The advantage which they really possessed over us a thousand years ago is still a reality to their blind pride . But it is time to return to the epoch when the race of Japhet began to put forth its power . Roman intellectual and physical vigor was the first great force which gave Europe that preeminence she has never since lost ; and there was a moment in history when it seemed likely that a nation , or a city rather , was on the point of realizing the prophetic promise made to the sons of Noah . But an idolatrous nation could not receive that boon ; and the Roman sway affected very slightly the African and Asiatic nations , whatever its pretensions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what she called Europe , Asia , and Africa  --  the whole globe  --  whenever she found that her empire did not reach the sea , she established there posts of armed men ; colonies were sent out and legions distributed along the line ; even in some places , as in Britain , walls were constructed , stretching across islands , if not along continents . Whatever country had the happiness of being included between those limits belonged to " the city and the world " - urbi et orbi ; beyond was Cimmerian darkness in the North , or burning deserts in the South . Mankind had no right to exist outside of her sway ; and , if some roaming barbarians strayed over the inhospitable confines , they could not complain at having their existence swept off from the field of history , so unworthy were they of the name of men . Science itself , the science of those times , had to admit such ideas and dictate them to polished writers . Hence , according to the greatest geographers , mankind could exist neither in tropical nor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into five zones , declared that only two of them were habitable . We now know how false were those assertions , and indeed how circumscribed was the power of ancient Rome . She pretended to universal as well as to eternal dominion ; but she deceived herself in both cases . Under her sway the races of Japhet were not " to dwell in the tents of Sem . " She was not worthy of accomplishing the great prophecy which is now under our consideration . It is , however , undoubtedly due to her that the children of Japhet became the dominant race of the globe , and the Eastern nations , once so active and so powerful , were overshadowed by her glory , and had already fallen into that slumber which seems eternal . Egypt was reduced so low that a victorious Roman general had only to appear on her borders to insure immediate submission . Syria and Mesopotamia were fast becoming the frightful deserts they are to-day . Persia dared not move in the awful presence of a few legions scattered along the Tigris ; and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a successful resistance against Rome , it was only owing to the abominable corruption of Roman society at the time ; but , in fact , Iran had fallen to rise no more , save spasmodically under Mohammedan rule . The fact is , that , in the subsequent flood of barbarians which for centuries overwhelmed and destroyed the whole of Europe , we behold , on all sides , streams of Northern European races , members of the same family of Japhet . It was the Goths that ruined Palestine even in the time of St. Jerome . If side by side with Northern nations the Huns appeared , no one knows precisely whence they came . Attila called himself King of the Scythians and the Goths , as well as grandson of Nimrod . He came with his mighty hosts from beyond the Danube ; this is all that can be said with certainty of his origin . The East , therefore , was already dead , and could furnish no powerful foe against that Rome which it detested . It is even in this Oriental supineness that we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ empire of Constantinople . Rome and the West , though far more vigorous , were overwhelmed by barbarians of the same original stock sent by Providence to " renew its youth like that of the eagle . " Constantinople and the East continued for a thousand years longer to drag out their feeble existence , because the far Orient could not send a few of its tribes to touch their walls and cause them to crumble into dust . It is even remarkable that the armies of Mohammed and his successors , in the flush of their new fanaticism , did not dare for a long time to attack the race of Japhet settled on the Bosporus . From their native Arabia they easily overran Egypt and Northern Africa , Syria and Palestine , Mesopotamia and Persia . But Asia Minor and Thrace remained for centuries proof against their fury , and , whenever their fleets appeared in the Bosporus , they were easily defeated by the unworthy successors of Constantine and Theodosius . This fact , which has not been sufficiently noticed , shows conclusively that the energy imparted by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time , and encountered in the West a successful resistance , had not the Turks appeared on the scene , destroyed the Saracen dynasties , and , by infusing the blood of Central Asia into the veins of Eastern and Southern fanatics , prolonged for so many ages the sway of the Crescent over a large portion of the globe . This was the turning-point in human affairs between the East and the West . We do not write history , and can not , consequently , enter into details . It is enough to say that a new element , strengthened by a long struggle with Moslemism , was to give to the West a lasting preponderance which ancient Rome could not possess , and whose developments we see in our days . This new element was the Christian religion , solidly established on the ruins of idolatry and heresy ; far more solidly established , consequently , than under the Christian emperors of Rome , while paganism still existed in the capital itself . The Christian religion , which was to make one society of all the children of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ name of universal or catholic ( whereas previously all religions had been merely national , and therefore very limited in their effects upon mankind at large ) ; which alone was destined to establish and maintain , through all ages , spite of innumerable obstacles , a real universal sway over all nations and tribes  --  the Christian religion alone could give one race preponderance over others until all should become , as it were , merged into one . At first it seemed that Providence destined that high calling for the Semitic branch of the human family . The Hebrew people , trained by God himself , through so many ages , for the highest purposes , finally gave birth to the great Leader who , by redeeming all men , was to gather them all into one family . This Leader , our divine Lord , himself a Hebrew , chose twelve men of the same nation to be the founders of the great edifice . We know how , the divine plan was frustrated by the stubbornness of the Jews , who rejected the corner-stone of the building @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The sons of Japhet were substituted for the sons of Sem , Europe for Asia , Rome for Jerusalem ; and the real commencement of the lasting preponderance of the West dates from the establishment of the Christian Church in Rome . See how , from Christianity , the Caucasian race , as we call it , came to be the rulers of the world . A mighty revolution , wherein all the branches of that great race become intermingled and confused , sweeps over the Roman Empire . Every thing seems destroyed by the onset of the barbarians , in order that they , by receiving the only true religion which they found without seeking among those whom they conquered , might become worthy of fulfilling the designs of Providence . All the barriers are overthrown that one institution , called Christendom , may take form and harmony . There are to be no more Romans , nor Gauls , nor Iberians , nor Germans , nor Scandinavians  --  only Christians . It is a renewed and reinvigorated race of Japhet , imbued with true doctrine , clothed with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a colossal statue , moulded by popes , chiselled by bishops , set on its feet by Christian emperors and kings , chiefly by Charlemagne , Alfred , Louis IX , and Otho . Is there not perfect unity between those great men divided by such intervals of space and time ? Is not their work a universal republic , whose foundations they laid with their own hands ? The rest of the world , still prostrate at the feet of foolish idols , or carried away by human errors and delusions , sinks deeper and deeper into apathy and corruption , while Europe is reserved for mighty purposes in centuries to come . A stream is gathering in the West , which is destined to sweep down and bear away all obstacles , and to cover every continent with its regenerating waters . That stream is modern European history . It has been recorded in thousands of volumes , many of which , however , are totally unreliable fables of those mighty events . Those only have had the key to its right interpretation who have followed the Christian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ guide the wonderful giant in his course . The chief among them were : of old , Augustine , the author of the " City of God ; " Orosius , the first to condense the annals of the world into the formula , " divina providentia regitur mundus et homo ; " Otho of Freysinguen , in his work " De mutatione rerum ; " and the author of " Gesta Dei per Francos ; " in modern times , Bossuet and his followers . The destruction of idolatry was of such vital importance in the regeneration of the world that it sufficed as a dogma to imbue a great branch of the Semitic family with a strong life for several centuries . Moslemism has no other truth to support it than the assertion of God 's unity ; but , by waging war against the Trinity and , consequently , against the very foundation of Christian belief , it became , for a long time , the greatest obstacle to the dissemination of truth . It prevented the early triumph of the Caucasian race , and galvanized , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into a false life . The ravages of the Tartar hordes under Genghis Khan and his successors were in no sense life , but only a fitful madness . The European stream was thus impeded in its flood by the new activity of Arabia and Turkomania . It was a struggle in which victory , for a long time , hung in the balance : it required many crusades of the whole of Western Europe ; the long heroism of the Spanish and Portuguese nations ; the incessant attack and defence of the Templars and the Knights of Malta over the whole surface of the Mediterranean Sea , to secure the preponderance of the West . It was finally decided at Lepanto . Since that great day , Mohammedanism has gradually declined , and there now seems no insurmountable obstacle to the free flowing of the European stream . This stream , however , is not homogeneous : far from it . Had the Christian element always remained alone in it , or at least supreme , long ere this the victory would have been secure forever , and the Catholic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the sons of Japhet possession of the tents of Sem  --  a glorious work so well begun in the East , in India and Japan ; in the West , in the whole of America ! But , unfortunately , the policy of the papacy , which was also that of Charlemagne , and of other great Christian sovereigns , was not continued . The Norman feudalism of England and Northern France ; the Caesarism of Germany and the Capetian kings ; the heresies brought from the East by the Crusaders ; the paganism and neo-Platonism of the revival of learning ; above all , the fearful upheaval of the whole of Europe by the Protestant schism and heresy , troubled the purity of that great Japhetic stream , and has retarded to our days its momentous and overwhelming impetuosity . Wonderful , indeed , that in the whole of Europe one small island alone was forever stubbornly opposed to all these aberrations , which has stood her ground firmly , and , we may now say , successfully . The reader already knows that the demonstration of this stupendous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stood aloof so long from all those wanderings from the right path , she has scarcely appeared in the field of European history save as the victim of Scandinavia and of England . But there is a time in the series of ages for the appearance of all those called by Providence to enact a part . What is a myriad of years for man is not a moment for God ; and it would seem that we had reached at last the epoch wherein Ireland is to be rewarded for her steadfastness and fidelity . The impetus now imparted to European power becomes each day more clearly defined , and , to judge by recent appearances , Irishmen are about to play no inglorious part in it . The power of expansion , so characteristic of them from the beginning , has of late years assumed gigantic proportions . The very hatred of their enemies , the measures adopted by their oppressors to annihilate them , have only served to give them a larger field of operations and a much stronger force . It is not without purpose that God @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ islands and continents . It is theirs to give to the spread of Japhetism among the sons of Sem its right direction and results . The other races of Western Europe would , had they been left to themselves alone , have converted that great event into a curse for mankind , and perhaps the forerunner of the last calamities ; but the Irish , having kept themselves pure , are the true instruments in the hands of God for righting what is wrong and purifying what is corrupt . Had Europe remained in its entirety as steadfast to the true Christian spirit as the small island which dots the sea on its western border , what an incalculable happiness it would have proved to the whole globe , resting as it does to-day under the lead of the race of Japhet ! But where now are the pure waters which should vivify and fertilize it ? Innumerable elements are floating in their midst which can but destroy life and spread barrenness everywhere . Let us see what Europeans believe ; what are the motives which actuate them ; what they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dominion ; what the real , openly-avowed purposes of the leaders are in the vast scheme which embraces the whole earth ; what becomes of foreign races as soon as they come in contact with them . The bare idea causes the blood of the Christian to curdle in his veins , and he thanks God that his life shall not be prolonged to witness the successful termination of the vast conspiracy against God and humanity . For , in our days , spite of so many deviations in the course of the great European stream , it is truly a matter of wonder what power it has obtained over the globe in its mastery , its control , its unification . What , then , would have been the result had its course remained constantly under Christian guidance ! It is only a short time since the whole earth has become known to us ; and we may say that , for Europe , it has been enough only to know it in order to become at once the mistress of it ; such power has the Christian religion given @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ took place but yesterday , and to-day European ships cover the oceans and seas of the world , bearing in every sail the breath and the spirit of Japhetism . The stubborn ice-fields of the pole can scarcely retard their course , and hardy navigators and adventurous travellers jeopardize their lives in the pursuit of merely theoretical notions , void almost of any practical utility . The most remote and , up to recently , inaccessible parts of the earth are as open to us , owing to steam , as were the countries bordering on the Mediterranean to the ancients . The Argonautic expedition along the southern coast of the Black Sea was in its day an heroic undertaking . The Phoenician colonies established in Africa and Spain by a race trying for the first time in the history of man to launch their ships on the ocean in order to trade with Northern tribes as far as Ireland and the Baltic , though never losing sight of the coast ; the attempts of the Carthaginians to circumnavigate Africa ; the three years ' voyages of the ships of Solomon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one and all far more hazardous undertakings than the long voyages of our steamships across the Indian Ocean to Australia , or around Cape Horn to California and the South Sea Islands , through the Southern and Northern Pacifics . From all large seaboard cities in any part of the globe , lines of steamers now bear men to every point of the compass , so that the very boards at the entrances of offices , to be found everywhere for the accommodation of travellers , are as indices of works on universal geography . And the European , still unsatisfied with all he has achieved in speed and comfort , looks to more rapid and easier modes of conveyance . Scientific men have been for many years engaged in experiments by means of which they hope to replace the ocean by the atmosphere as a public highway for nations ; and the currents of air rushing in every direction with the velocity of the most rapid winds may yet be used by our children instead of rivers , thenceforth deserted , and of ocean-streams at last left empty and waste @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ All this constitutes a positive and stern fact staring us in the face , and giving to the Caucasian race a power of which our ancestors would never have dreamed . And if all this is to be the only result of man 's activity  --  the attainment of merely worldly purposes  --  God , whose world this is , may look down on it from heaven as on the work of Titans preparing to attack his rights , and He will know how to turn all these mighty efforts of the sons of Japhet to his own holy designs . He may use a small branch of that great race , preserved purposely from the beginning unsullied by mere thrift , and prepared for his work by long persecution , a consideration which we shall examine later on . Meanwhile the great mass of the European family is allowed to go on in its wonderful undertaking ; and we turn to it yet a short while . As if to favor still more directly this work of the unification of the globe , Providence has placed at the disposal of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one could have foreseen a few years ago . In 1846 , on a small branch of one of the great rivers of California , a colonist discovers gold carried as dust with the sand , and soon a great part of the country is found to be immensely rich in the precious metal . That first discovery is followed by others equally important , and after a few years gold is found in abundance on both sides of a long range of the Rocky Mountains ; again in the north , nearly as high up as the arctic circle . North America , in fact , is found to be a vast gold deposit . Australia soon follows , and that new continent , whose exploration has scarcely begun , is said to be dotted all over by large oases of auriferous rock and gravel . In due time the same news comes from South Africa , where it has been lately reported that diamonds , in addition to gold , enrich the explorer and the workman . It is needless to speak of mines of silver and mercury after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ European race is straightway provided with an enormous wealth commensurate with the immense commercial and manufacturing enterprises required for the establishment of its supremacy all over the globe . There is work , therefore , for all the ships afloat ; others and larger ones have to be constructed ; and modern engineering skill places on the bosom of the deep sea vessels which few , indeed , of the greatest rivers can accommodate in their channels and bays . All these means of dominion and dissemination once procured , the great work clearly assigned to the race of Japhet may proceed . Intercourse with the most savage and uncivilized tribes is eagerly cultivated even at the risk of life . New avenues to trade are opened up in places where men , still living in the most primitive state , have few if any wants ; and it is considered as part of the keen merchant 's skill to fill the minds of these uncouth and unsophisticated barbarians with the desire of every possible luxury . Have we not lately heard that the savages of the Feejee Islands , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ king seeking the protection of England , if not the annexation of his kingdom to the British empire ? Yes , the material civilization of Europe , the new discoveries of steam and magnetism , the untiring energy of men aiming at universal dominion , give to the Caucasian race such a superiority over the rest of mankind that the time seems to be fast approaching when the manners , the dress , the look even of Europeans , will supersede all other types , and spread everywhere the dead level of our habits . This fact has already been realized in America , North and South . Geographers may give lengthened descriptions of the original tribes which still possess a shadow of existence ; foreign readers may perhaps imagine that the continent is still in the quiet possession of rude and uncivilized races roaming at will over its surface , and allowing some Europeans to occupy certain cities and harbors for the purposes of trade and barter . We know that nothing could be more erroneous . The Europeans are the real possessors , north and south ; the Indians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by year into narrower limits . The northern and larger half of the continent is chiefly the dwelling-place of the most active branch of the bold race of Japhet . The first of the iron lines which are to connect its Atlantic and Pacific coasts has recently been laid . Cities spring up all along its track : the harbors of California , Oregon , and Alaska , will soon swarm much more than now with hardy navigators ready to europeanize the various groups of islands scattered over the Pacific . Already in the Sandwich and Tahiti groups the number of Europeans is greatly in excess of that of the natives . Those natives who , in the Philippine Islands , have been preserved by the Catholic Church , will too soon disappear from the surface of the largest ocean of the globe . Then Eastern Asia will be attacked much more seriously than ever before . Since its discovery , Europeans could only reach it through the long distances which divide Western Europe from China and Japan . But within a short time numerous lines of steamships , starting from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ harbors yet nameless , will land travellers in Yokohama , Hakodadi , Yeddo , Shanghai , Canton , and other emporiums of Asia . Nor will the Americans of the United States be alone in the race . Several governments are preparing to cut a canal through the Isthmus of Panama , or Darien , or Tehuantepec , as has already been done with that of Suez ; and soon ships starting from Western Europe will , with the aid of steam , traverse the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans successively as two large lakes to land their passengers and cargoes on the frontiers of China and India . The Japanese , those Englishmen of the East , are ready to adopt European inventions . They are indeed already expert in many of them , and seem on the alert to conform to European manners . It is said that the nation is divided into two parties on that very question of conformity ; before long they will all be of one mind . What an impulse will thus be given to the europeanization of China and Tartary ! In Hindostan , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the peninsula offering an obstacle to the introduction of a large number of men of the Caucasian race , it will be more probably from the foot of the Himalaya Mountains that the spread of the race will commence . Already the English and the Russians are concentrating their forces on the Upper Indus . The question merely is , Which nation will be the first to inoculate the dreamy sons of Sem with the spirit and blood of Japhet ? It seems that Central Asia will form the rallying-ground for the last efforts of the Titans to unify their power , as it was thence that the power of God first dispersed them . A glance at the rest of the world as witnessing the same astonishing spectacle , and we pass on . Australia is clearly destined to be entirely European ; the number of natives , already insignificant compared to that of the colonists , will soon disappear utterly . Turkey , the Caucasus , Bokhara , are rapidly taking a new shape and adopting Western manners . The African triangle offers the greatest resistance , owing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ savage or childish disposition of its inhabitants . Yet the attempt to europeanize it is at this moment in earnest action at its southernmost cape , all along its northern line skirting the Mediterranean , in Egypt chiefly , and also through the Erythrean Gulf in the east ; finally , on many points of its western shore , which , strange to say , lags behind , although it formed the first point of discovery by the Portuguese . To condense all we have just said to a few lines : it looks as though all races of men , except the Caucasian , were undergoing a rapid process of unification or disappearance . In America certainly the phenomenon is most striking . In Asia all the native races seem palsied and unable to hold together in the presence of the Russians and the English . In Africa , Mohammedanism still preserves to the natives a certain activity of life , but even that is fast on the wane . Finally , in Australia and the Pacific Ocean the disappearance of the natives is still more striking and more sudden @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of things did not exist two hundred years ago ; and when the Crusades began the reverse was the case . We can not believe that this immense , universal fact is merely an exterior one resulting from new appliances , new comforts , new outward habits ; what is called material civilization . We can not believe that it is merely the dress , houses , culinary regime , the popular customs of those numerous foreign tribes or nations which are undergoing such a wonderful change . This outward phenomenon supposes a substratum , an interior reality of ideas and principles worthy our chief attention as the real cause of all those exterior changes ; a cause , nevertheless , which is scarcely thought of in the public estimate of this mighty revolution . It is the mind of Europe : it is the belief or want of belief , the religious or irreligious views , the grasping ambition , the headlong desire of an impossible or unholy happiness , the reckless sway of unbridled passions , which try to spread themselves among all nations , and bring them all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intoxicated , tottering , maddened Europe . If the monstrous scheme succeeds , there will be no more prayer in the villages of the devout Maronites , no more submission to God in the mountains of Armenia , no more simplicity of faith among the shepherds of Chaldea , no more purity of life among the wandering children of Asiatic deserts . Side by side with truth and virtue many errors and monstrosities will doubtless disappear , but not to be replaced with what is much better . The muezzin of the mosques will no longer raise his voice from the minarets at noon and nightfall ; the simple Lama will no longer believe in the successive incarnations of Buddha ; no longer will the superstitious Hindoo cast himself beneath the car of Juggernaut ; many another such absurdity and crime will , let us hope , disappear forever . But with what benefit to mankind ? After all , is not superstition even better for men than total unbelief ? And , when the whole world is reduced to the state of Europe , when what we daily witness there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men really be more virtuous and happy ? We must not think , however , that there is nothing truly good in the stupendous transformation which we have endeavored to sketch . If it really be the accomplishment of the great prophecy mentioned by us at the beginning of this chapter , it is a noble and a glorious event . God will know how to turn it to good account , and it is for us to hail its coming with thankfulness . There is no doubt that the actual superiority of the race of Japhet , by force of which this wonderful revolution is being accomplished , is the result of Christianity , that is , of Catholicity . It is because Europe , or the agglomeration of the various branches of the race of Japhet , was for fifteen hundred years overshadowed by the true temple of God , his glorious and infallible Church ; it is because the education of Europeans is mainly due to the true messengers of God , the Popes and the bishops ; it is because the mind of Europe was really formed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and convents of the Church ; it is , finally , because Europeans are truly the sons of martyrs and crusaders , that on them devolves the great mission of regenerating and blending into one the whole world . But , unfortunately , the work is spoiled by adjuncts in the movement which have grown up in the centuries preceding us . In fact , the whole European movement has been thrown on a wrong track , which we have already pointed out as mere material civilization . Still , in spite of all the dross , there is a great deal of pure metal in the Japhetic movement . Underlying it all runs the doctrine that all men are sprung from the same father , and that all have had the same Redeemer ; that , consequently , all are brethren , and that there should be no place among them for castes and classes , as of superior and inferior beings ; that the God the Christians adore is alone omnipotent ; that idolatry of all kinds ought to disappear , and that ultimately there should be but one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still held to in the main by the race of Japhet , in spite of some harsh and opposing false assertions , truths which the Catholic Church alone teaches in their purity , and which are yet destined , we hope , to make one of all mankind . But her claims are yet far from being acknowledged by the leaders in the movement . And who are those leaders ? A question all-important . England is certainly the first and foremost . Endowed with all the characteristics of the Scandinavian race , which we shall touch upon after , deeply infused with the blood of the Danes and Northmen , she has all the indomitable energy , all the systematic grasp of mind and sternness of purpose joined to the wise spirit of compromise and conservatism of the men of the far North ; she , of all nations , has inherited their great power of expansion at sea , possessing all the roving propensities of the old Vikings , and the spirit of trade , enterprise , and colonization , of those old Phoenicians of the arctic circle . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ having , through causes which it is not the place to investigate here , lost their power on the ocean ; the temporary maritime supremacy of Holland having passed away , because the people of that flat country were too close and narrow-minded to grasp the world for any length of time ; France , the only modern rival of England as a naval power , having been compelled , owing to the revolutions of the last and the present centuries , to concentrate her whole strength on the Continent of Europe ; the young giant of the West , America , being yet unable to grasp at once a vast continent and universal sway over the pathways of the ocean , England had free scope for her maritime enterprises , and she threw herself headlong into this career . Out of Europe she is incontestably the first power of the whole world . To give a better idea of the extent of her dominion , we subjoin an abridged sketch from the " History of a Hundred Years , " by Cesare Cantu : " In Europe she has colonies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Isles . " In Africa , Bathurst , Sierra Leone , many establishments on the coast of Guinea , the islands of Mauritius , Rodrigo , Sechelles , Socotora , Ascension , St. Helena , and , most important of all , the Cape Colony . " In Asia , where she replaced the French and Dutch , she has , besides Ceylon , an empire of 150,000,000 of people in India , the islands of Singapore and Sumatra , part of Malacca , and many establishments in China . " In America , she is mistress of Canada , New Brunswick , and other eastern provinces ; the Lucayes , Bermudas , most of the Antilles , part of Guiana , and the Falkland Isles . " In the Southern Ocean , the greater part of Australia , Tasmania , Norfolk , Van Diemen 's Land , New Zealand , and many other groups of Oceanica are hers . " What other state can compete with her in the management of colonies , and in the selection of situations from which she could command the sea ? Jersey and Guernsey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Heligoland she can open or shut the mouths of the Elbe and Weser ; from Gibraltar she keeps her eye on Spain and the States of Barbary , and holds the gates of the Mediterranean . With Malta and Corfu she has a like advantage over the Levant . Socotora is for her the key of the Red Sea , whence she commands Eastern Africa and Abyssinia . Ormuz , Chesmi , and Buschir , give her the mastery over the Persian Gulf , and the large rivers which flow into it . Aden secures the communication of Bombay with Suez . Pulo Pinang makes her mistress of the Straits of Malacca , and Singapore , of the passage between China and India . At the Cape of Good Hope her troops form an advanced guard over the Indian Ocean ; and from Jamaica she rules the Antilles and trades securely with the rest of Central and South America . " Englishmen have made a careful survey of the whole of the Mediterranean Sea , of the course of the Indus , the Ganges , the Bramaputra , the Godavery , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between Cape Colony and China ; England has steamships on the Amazon and Niger , and her vessels are found everywhere on the coast of Chili and Peru . " Other European families try to follow in her footsteps ; at their head the United States now stand . Primitively an offshoot of the English stock , the blood of all other Japhetic races has given the latter country an activity and boldness which will render it in time superior in those respects to the mother-country herself . Yet at this time , even in the presence of the United States , in the presence of all other maritime powers , England stands at the head of the Japhetic movement . Unfortunately , her first aim , after acquiring wealth and securing her power , is , to exclude the Roman Catholic Church as far as is practicable from the benefit of the system , to oppose her whenever she would follow in the wake of her progress , and either to allow paganism or Mohammedanism to continue in quiet possession wherever they exist , or to substitute for them as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Catholicity of the Church is to be crushed , or at least thwarted , to make room for the catholicity of the English nation . And it looks as though such , in truth , would have been the result , had not the stubbornness of the Irish character stood in the way ; if the Celt of Erin , after centuries of oppression and opposition to the false wanderings of the European stream , had not insisted on following the English lord in his travels , dogging his steps everywhere , entering his ships welcome or unwelcome , rushing on shore with him wherever he thought fit to land , and there planted his shanty and his frame church in the very sight of stately palaces lately erected , and gorgeous temples with storied windows and softly-carpeted floors . And after a few years the Irish Celt would show himself as active and industrious in his new country as oppression had made him indolent and careless on his own soil ; the shanty would be replaced by a house worthy of a man ; above all , the humble @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to make room for an edifice not altogether unworthy of divine majesty ; at least , far above the pretentious structures of the oppressors of his religion . The eyes of men would be again turned to " the city built upon a mountain ; " and the character of universality , instead of being wrested from the true Church , would become more resplendent than ever through the steadfast Irish Celt . Thus the spreading of the Gospel in distant regions would be accomplished without a navy of their own . As their ancestors did in pagan times , they would use the vessels of nations born for thrift and trade ; the stately ships of the " Egyptians " would be used by the true " people of God . " For them hath Stephenson perfected the steam-engine , so as to enable vessels to undertake long voyages at sea without the necessary help of sails ; for them Brunel and others had spent long years in planning and constructing novel Noah 's arks capable of containing all clean and unclean animals ; for them the Barings and other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the ocean in their financial schemes ; the Jews of England , Germany , and France , the Rothschilds and Mendelssohns , had accumulated large amounts of money to lend to ship-building companies ; for them , in fine , the long-hidden gold deposits of California , Australia , and many other places , had been discovered at the proper time to replenish the coffers of the godless , that they might undertake to furnish the means of transportation and settlement for the missionaries of God ! And , to prove that this is no exaggeration , it is enough to look at the number of emigrants that were to be carried to foreign parts , and that actually left England for her various colonies or for the United States . For several years one thousand Irish people sailed daily from the ports of Great Britain ; and for a great number of years 200,000 at least did so every twelve months . When we come , to contrast the Irish at home with the Irish abroad , we shall give fuller details than are possible here . These few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the vast sums that were required for such an extraordinary operation . This phenomenon is surely curious enough , universal enough , and sufficiently portentous in its consequences , to deserve a thorough inquiry into its causes and the way in which it was brought about . It will be seen that it all came from the Irish having kept themselves aloof from the other branches of the great Japhetic race in order to join in the general movement at the right time and in their own way , constantly opposed to all the evil that is in it , but using it in the way Providence intended . The chapters which follow will be devoted to the development of this general idea ; the few remarks with which we close the present may tend to set the conclusion which we draw more distinctly before our minds . There is no doubt that , taking the Irish nation as a whole , we find in it features which are visible in no other European nation ; and that , taking Europe as a whole , in all its complexity of habits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we have a picture wholly distinct from that of the Irish people . England has striven during the last eight hundred years to shape it and make it the creature of her thought , and England has utterly failed . The same race of men and women inhabit the isle of Erin to-day as that which held it a thousand years ago , with the distinction that it is now far more wretched and deserving of pity than it was then . The people possess the same primitive habits , simple thoughts , ardent impulsiveness , stubborn spirit , and buoyant disposition , in spite of ages of oppression . In the course of centuries they have not furnished a single man to that army of rash minds which have carried the rest of Europe headlong through lofty , perhaps , but at bottom empty and idle theories , to the brink of that bottomless abyss into which no one can peer without a shudder . No heresiarch has found place among them ; no fanciful philosopher , no holder of fitful and lurid light to deceive nations and lead them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Gospel , no inventor of new theogonies and cosmologies  --  new in name , old in fact  --  rediscovered by modern students in the Kings of China , the Vedas of Hindostan , the Zends of Persia , or Eddas of the North ; no ardent explorer of Nature , seeking in the bowels of the earth , or on the summits of mountains , or in the depths of the ocean , or the motions of the stars , proofs that God does not exist , or that matter has always existed , that man has made himself , developing his own consciousness out of the instinct of the brute , or even out of the material motions of the zoophyte . We would beg the reader to bear in mind those insane theories so prevalent to-day , out of which society can hope for nothing but convulsions and calamities , to see how all the nations of Europe have contributed to the baneful result except the Irish ; that they alone have furnished no false leader in those wanderings from the right path ; that their community @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ theories which led to them , have spurned them with contempt , and even refused to inquire into them : with these thoughts and recollections in his mind , he may understand what we mean when we assert that the Irish have stubbornly refused to enter upon the European movement . Although , by the reception of Christianity , they were admitted into the European family , the Christianity which they received was so thoroughly imbibed and so completely carried out that any thing in the least opposed to it was sternly rejected by the whole nation . Hence they became a people of peculiar habits . Rejecting the harsh features of feudalism , not caring for the refinement of the so-called revival of learning , sternly opposed at all times to Protestantism , they would have naught to do with what was rejected or even suspected by the Church , until in our days they offer to the eyes of the world the spectacle we have sketched . Thus have they , not the least by reason of their long martyrdom , become fit instruments for the great work Providence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the material part of the social movement which has been the subject of this chapter , for a long time hesitated to adopt principles altogether subversive to society . In her worldly good sense she endeavored to follow what she imagined a via media in her wisdom , to avoid what seemed to her extremes , but what is in reality the eternal antagonism of truth and falsehood , of order and chaos . Twenty years back there was a unanimity among English writers to speak the language of moderation and good sense whenever a rash author of foreign nations hazarded some dangerous novelties ; and in their reviews they immediately pointed out the poison which lay concealed under the covering of science or imagination , and the peril of these ever-increasing new discoveries . If any Englishman sanctioned those theories , he could not form a school among his countrymen , and remained almost alone of his party . But at last England has given way to the universal spread of temptation , and to-day she runs the race of disorganization as ardent as any , striving to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is astounded at the sudden and remarkable change . It is truly inexplicable , save by the fearful axiom , Quos Deus vult perdere , dementat . Hence not a few expect soon to see storms sweep over the devoted island of Great Britain , which no longer forms an exception to the universality of the evil we have indicated . Which , then , is the one safe spot in Europe , whither the tide of folly , or madness rather , has not yet come ? Ireland alone is the answer . CHAPTER III . THE IRISH BETTER PREPARED TO RECEIVE CHRISTIANITY THAN OTHER NATIONS . The introduction of Christianity gave Europe a power over the world which pagan Rome could not possess . All the branches of the Japhetic family combined to form what was with justice and propriety called Christendom . Ireland , by receiving the Gospel , was really making her first entry into the European family ; but there were certain peculiarities in her performance of this great act which gave her national life , already deviating from that of other European nations , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her preparation for the great reception of the faith , and the few obstacles she encountered in her adoption of it , compared with those of the rest of the world . Providence wisely decreed that redemption should be delayed until a large portion of mankind had attained to the highest civilization . It was not in a time of ignorance and barbarism that the Saviour was born . The Augustan is , undoubtedly , the most intellectual and refined age , in point of literary and artistic taste , that the world has ever seen . A few centuries before , Greece had reached the summit of science and art . No country , in ancient or modern times , has surpassed the acumen of her philosophical writers and the aesthetic perfection of her poets and artists . Rome made use of her to embellish her cities , and inherited her taste for science and literature . But art and literature embody ideas only ; and , as Ozanam says so well : " Beneath the current of ideas which dispute the empire of the world , lies that world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ treasure of wealth and visible adornment which render it worthy of being the transient sojourn-place of immortal souls . Beneath the true , the good , and the beautiful , lies the useful , which is brightened by their reflection . No people has more keenly appreciated the idea of utility than that of Rome ; none has ever laid upon the earth a hand more full of power , or more capable of transforming it ; nor more profusely flung the treasures of earth at the feet of humanity . . . . " At the close of the second century . . the rhetorician Aristides celebrated in the following terms the greatness of the Roman Empire : ' Romans , the whole world beneath your dominion seems to keep a day of festival . From time to time a sound of battle comes to you from the ends of the earth , where you are repelling the Goth , the Moor , or the Arab . But soon that sound is dispersed like a dream . Other are the rivalries and different the conflicts which you excite through the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ magnificence between provinces and cities . Through you , gymnasia , aqueducts , porticoes , temples , and schools , are multiplied ; the very soil revives , and the earth is but one vast garden ! ' " Similar , also , was the language of the stern Tertullian : In truth , the world becomes day after day richer and better cultivated ; even the islands are no longer solitudes ; the rocks have no more terrors for the navigator ; everywhere there are habitations , population , law , and life . ' " The legions of Rome had constructed the roads which furrowed mountains , leaped over marshes , and crossed so many different provinces with a like solidity , regularity , and uniformity ; and the various races of men were lost in admiration at the sight of the mighty works which were attributed in after-times to Caesar , to Brunehaud , to Abelard ! " It was in the midst of those worldly glories that Christ was born , that he preached , and suffered , that his religion was established and propagated . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most learned of men , as well as among slaves and artisans ; and thus was it proved that Christianity could satisfy the loftiest aspirations of the most civilized as well as insure the happiness of the most numerous and miserable classes . But we must reflect that the advanced civilization of Greece and Rome was in fact an immense obstacle to the propagation of truth , and , what is more to be regretted , often gave an unnatural aspect to the Christianity of the first ages in the Roman world  - -  a half-pagan look  --  so that the barbarian invasion was almost necessary to destroy every thing of the natural order ; that the Church alone remaining face to face with those uncouth children of the North , might begin her mission anew and mould them all into the family called " Christendom . " " Christianity , " to quote Ozanam again , " shrank from condemning a veneration of the beautiful , although idolatry was contained in it ; and as it honored the human mind and the arts it produced , so the persecution of the apostate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been forbidden to the faithful , was the severest of its trials . Literary history possesses no moment of greater interest than that which saw the school with its profane  --  that is to say pagan  --  traditions and texts received into the Church . The Fathers , whose christian austerity is our wonder , were passionate in their love of antiquity , which they covered , as it were , with their sacred vestments . . . . By their favor , Virgil traversed the ages of iron without losing a page , and , by right of his Fourth Eclogue , took rank among the prophets and the sibyls . St. Augustine would have blamed paganism less , if , in place of a temple to Cybele , it had raised a shrine to Plato , in which his works might have been publicly read . St. Jerome 's dream is well known , and the scourging inflicted upon him by angels for having loved Cicero too well ; yet his repentance was but short-lived , since he caused the monks of the Mount of Olives to pass their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shrink himself from expounding the comic and lyric poets to the children of Bethlehem . " We know already that nothing of the kind existed in Ireland when the Gospel reached her , and that there the new religion assumed a peculiar aspect , which has never varied , and which made her at once and forever a preeminently Christian nation . Among the Greeks and Romans , literature and art , although accepted by the Church , were nevertheless deeply impregnated with paganism . All their chief acts of social life required a profession of idolatry ; even amusements , dramatic representations , and simple games , were religious and consequently pagan exhibitions . We do not here speak of the attractions of an atheistic and materialist philosophy , of a voluptuous , often , and demoralizing literature and poetry , of an unimaginable prostitution of art to the vilest passions , which the relics of Pompeii too abundantly indicate . But apart from those excesses of corruption and unbelief , which , no doubt , virtuous pagans themselves abhorred , the approved , correct , and so-called pure life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of idolatrous worship . Apart from the thousand duties , festivals , and the like , decreed or sanctioned by the state , the most ordinary acts of life , the enlisting of the soldier , the starting on a military expedition , the assumption of any civil office or magistracy , the civil oaths in the courts of law , the public bath , the public walk almost , the current terms in conversation , the private reading of the best books , the mere glancing at a multitude of exterior objects , constituted almost as many professions of a false and pagan worship . How could any one become a Christian and at the same time remain a Greek or a Roman ? The gloomy views of the Montanist Tertullian were , to many , frightful truths requiring constant care and self-examen . For the Christian there were two courses open  --  both excesses , yet either almost unavoidable : on the one side , a terrible rigorism , making life unsupportable , next to impossible ; on the other , a laxity of thought and action leading to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ written on the subject in the first three ages of Christianity , not only by Tertullian , but by most orthodox writers , St. Cyprian , Lactantius , Arnobius , and the authors of many Acts of martyrs , we may easily understand how the doctrines of Christianity stood in danger of never taking deep root in the hearts of men surrounded by such temptations , themselves born in paganism , and remaining , after their conversion , exposed to seductions of such an alluring character . Therefore this same " high civilization , " as it is called , in the midst of which Christianity was preached , was a real danger to the inward life of the new disciple of Christ . How could it be otherwise , when it is a fact now known to all , that , even at the beginning of the fifth century , Rome was almost entirely pagan , at least outwardly , and among her highest classes ; so that the poet Claudian , in addressing Honorius at the beginning of his sixth consulship , pointed out to him the site of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surrounded by numerous pagan edifices , supporting in air an army of gods ; and all around temples , chapels , statues , without number  --  in fact , the whole Roman and Greek mythology , standing in the City of the Catacombs and of the Popes ! The public calendars , preserved to this day , continued to note the pagan festivals side by side with the feasts of the Saviour and his apostles . Within the city and beyond , throughout Italy and the most remote provinces , idols and their altars were still surrounded by the thronging populace , prostrate at their feet . If in the cities the new religion already dared display something of its inherent splendor , the whole rural population was still pagan , singing the praises of Ceres and of Bacchus , trembling at Fauns and Satyrs and the numerous divinities of the groves and fountains . Christianity then held the same standing in Italy that in the United States Catholicity holds to-day in the midst of innumerable religious sects . This is not the place to show how far the paganism of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was its rottenness at the time . It has been already shown by several great writers of this century . Enough for our purpose to remark that even some Christian writers , of the age immediately succeeding that of the early martyrs , showed themselves more than half pagans in their tastes and productions . Ausonius in the West , the preceptor of St. Paulinus , is so obscene in some of his poems , so thoroughly pagan in others , that critics have for a long time hesitated to pronounce him a Christian . How many of his contemporaries hovered like him on the confines of Christianity and paganism ! When Julian the apostate restored idolatry , many , who had only disgraced the name of Christian , openly returned to the worship of Jupiter and Venus , and their apostasy could scarcely be cause for regret to sincere disciples of our Lord . In the East the phenomenon is less striking . Strange to say , idolatry did not remain so firmly rooted in the country , where it first took such an alluring shape ; and Constantinople was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rome , in her senate , fought with such persistent tenacity for her altars of Victory , her vestals , and her ancient worship . Yet there , also , Christian writers were too apt to interfuse the old ideas with the new , and to adopt doctrines placed , as it were , midway between those of Plato and St. Paul . There were bishops even who were a scandal to the Church and yet remained in it . Synesius is the most striking example ; whose doctrine was certainly more philosophical than Christian , and whose life , though decorous , was altogether worldly . The history of Arianism shows that others besides Synesius were far removed from the ideal of Christian bishops so worthily represented at the time by many great doctors and holy pontiffs . Such , in the East as well as in the West , were the perils besetting the true Christian spirit at the very cradle of our holy religion . Nor was the danger confined to the mythology of paganism , its literature and poetry . Philosophy itself became a real stumbling-block to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when they gave themselves up to the most unrestrained wanderings of human reason . The truth is , that Greek philosophy , divided into so many schools in order to please all tastes , had become a wide-spread institution throughout the Roman world . The mind of the East was best adapted to it , and those who taught it were , consequently , nearly all Greeks . Cicero had made it fashionable among many of his countrymen ; and although the Latin mind , always practical to the verge of utilitarianism , was not congenial to utopian speculations , still , as it was the fashion , all intellectual men felt the need of becoming sufficiently acquainted with it to be able to speak of it and even to embrace some particular school . Those patricians , who remained attached to the stern principles of the old republic , became Stoics ; while the men of the corrupt aristocracy called themselves , with Horace , members of the " Epicurean herd . " Hence the necessity for all to train their minds to scientific speculation , converted the Western world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the opinion of some Eastern Fathers of the Church , Greek philosophy had been a preparation for the Gospel , and could be made subservient to the conversion of many . Thus we find St. Justin , the martyr , all his life long glorying in the name of philosopher , and continuing to wear , even after his conversion , the philosopher 's cloak so much derided by the scoffer , Lucian . Still , despite this very respectable opinion , we can entertain no doubt , in view of what happened at the time and of subsequent events , that philosophy grew to be a stumbling-block in the path of Christianity , and originated the worst and most dangerous forms of heresy ; that it sowed the seed , in the European mind , of all errors , by creating that speculative tendency of character so peculiar to most branches of the Japhetic race . Persian Dualism , and , as many think , Pantheistic Buddhism , which were then flourishing in Central and Eastern Asia , infected the Alexandrian schools , and impressed philosophy with a new and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ frightful errors . The Neo-Platonism of Porphyry and Plotinus was intended , in the minds of its originators , to lay a scientific basis for polytheism ; and , in Jamblichus finally , became an open justification of the most absurd fables of mythology . But , though this might satisfy Julian and those who followed him in his apostasy , it could not come to be an inner danger to the Church . With many , however , it assumed a form which at once engendered the worst errors of Gnosticism ; and Gnosticism was , at first , considered a Christian heresy ; so that a man might be a pantheist , of the worst kind , and still call himself Christian . St. John had foreseen the danger from the beginning , and it is said that he wrote his gospel against it because the doctrine openly denied the divinity of Christ . But the sect became much more powerful after his death , and allured many Christians who were disposed , from a misinterpretation of some texts of St. Paul on the struggle between the flesh and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ explain the origin of that struggle . The Alexandrian Gnosticism failed to excite in the minds of the holy monks of the East that aversion which we now feel for its tenets , inasmuch as it did not openly anathematize the Scriptures of the Old Law , nay , even preserved a certain outward respect for them , on account of the multitude of Jews living in Alexandria , and particularly because the open system of Dualism , which afterward came from Syria and in the hands of Manes established the existence of two equal and eternal principles of good and evil , found no place in the teachings of Valentinus and his school . But even this frightful Syrian Gnosticism , which gave to the principle of evil an origin as ancient and sacred as that of God himself  --  Manicheism barefaced and radically immoral  --  so repugnant to our feelings , so monstrous to our more correct ideas , bore a semblance of truth for many minds , at that time inclined toward every thing which came from the East . We know what a firm hold those doctrines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a long time professed and cherished them . Rome , under the pagan emperors , had received with open arms the Oriental gods and the philosophy which endeavored to explain their mythology ; and many gifted minds of the third and fourth centuries lost themselves in the contemplation of those mysteries which from out Central Asia spread a lurid glare over the Western world . This first danger , however , was warded off by the writings of St. Ignatius of Antioch , St. Irenaeus of Lyons , Clement of Alexandria , Tertullian , Origen , St. Epiphanius , Theodoret , and others , long before the time of St. Augustine , the last of them . Gnosticism was prevented from any longer imparting a wrong tendency to Christian doctrines , and it died out , until restored during the Crusades to revive in the middle ages in its most malignant form . But at the very moment of its decline , philosophy entered the Church ; almost to wreck her by inspiring Arius and Pelagius . The teachings of the first were clearly Neo-Platonic ; of the second , Stoic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the third to the sixth century originated in Arianism and Pelagianism . In Plato , as read in Alexandria , Arius found all the material for his doctrine , which spread like wild-fire over the whole Church . Many things conspired to swell the number of his adherents : the ardent love for philosophy so inherent in the Eastern Church , to the extent of many believing that Plato was almost a Christian , and his doctrines therefore endowed with real authority ; the natural disposition of men to adopt the new and a seeming rational explanation of unfathomable mysteries ; the apparent agreement of his doctrine with certain passages of Scripture , where the Son is said to be inferior to the Father ; but chiefly the satisfaction it afforded to a number of new Christians who had embraced the faith at the conversion of Constantine on political rather than conscientious grounds , and who were at once relieved of the supernatural burden of believing in a God-man , born of a woman , and dying on a cross . Faith reduced to an opinion ; religion become a philosophy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they might , recognized as our guide , and not overwhelming us with the dread weight of a divine nature ; all this explains the historic phrase of St. Jerome after the Council of Rimini , " The world groaned and wondered to find itself Arian . " Any person acquainted with ecclesiastical history knows how the Church of Christ would have surely become converted into a mere rational school , under the pressure of these doctrines , were it not for the promises of perpetuity which she had received . We know also what a time it took to establish truth : how many councils had to meet , how many books had to be written , the efforts required from the rulers of the Church , chiefly from the Roman pontiffs , to calm so many storms , to explain so many difficult points of doctrine , to secure the final victory . And , after all had been accomplished , there still remained the root of the evil engrafted in what we call the philosophical turn of mind of the Western nations  --  that is to say , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to seek out strange and novel difficulties , to start war-provoking theories in the midst of peace , to aim at founding a new school , or at least to stand forth as the brilliant and startling expounder of old doctrines in a new form , in fine to add a last name to the list , already over-long , of those who have disturbed the world by their skill in dialectics and sophism . Pelagius followed Arius , and his errors had the same object in view in the long-run , to strip our holy religion of all that is spiritual and divine . In the time of St. Augustine and St. Jerome , there existed among Christians an extraordinary tendency to embrace all possible philosophical doctrines , even when directly opposed to the first principles of revealed religion ; and , within the Church , the danger of subtilizing on every question connected with well-known dogmas was much greater than many imagine . From the previous reflections we may learn how difficult it was to establish , in pagan Europe , a thoroughly Christian life and doctrine ; and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the new spirit , it was still too easy to disturb the flowing stream of the heavenly graces of the Gospel . This resulted , we repeat , from causes anterior to Christianity , from sources of evil which the divine religion had to overcome , and which too often impeded its supernatural action . In fact , the ecclesiastical history of those ages is comprised mainly in depicting the almost continual deviations from the straight line of pure doctrine and morality , and the strenuous efforts assiduously made by the rulers of the Church against a never-ceasing falling away . Having taken this glance at the early workings of Christianity through the rest of the world , we may now turn fairly to the immediate subject we have in hand , and trace its course in Ireland . From the very beginning we are struck by the peculiarities  --  blessed , indeed  --  which show themselves , as in all other matters , in its reception of the truth . The island , compared with Europe , is small , it is true ; but the heroism displayed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the religion which they received so freely , so generously , and at once , in mind as well as heart , marks it out as worthy of a special account ; and , from its unique reception and adherence to the faith , as worthy of , if possible , a natural explanation of such action beyond the promptings of Divine grace , since its astonishing perseverance , its unswerving faith , form to-day as great a characteristic of the nation as they did on the day of its entry into the Christian Church . We proceed to examine , then , the kind of idolatry which its first apostle encountered on landing in the island , and the ease with which it was destroyed , so as to leave behind no poisonous shoots of the deadly root of evil . In order to understand the religious system of Ireland previous to the preaching of the Gospel , we must first take a general survey of polytheism , if it can be so called , in all Celtic countries , and of the peculiar character which it bore in Ireland @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possessed certain things in common , which belonged to the rites and creeds of all nations , and were evidently derived from the primitive traditions of mankind , and , consequently , from a true and Divine revelation . Such were the belief in a golden age , in the fall from a happy beginning , in the penalty imposed on sin , which gave a reason for great mundane calamities  --  the Deluge chiefly  - -  the memory of which lived in the traditions of almost every nation ; in the necessity of prayer and expiatory sacrifice ; in the transmission of guilt from father to son , expressed in all primitive legislations , and to this day preserved in the Chinese laws and customs ; in the existence of good and bad spirits , whence , most probably , arose polytheism ; in the hope of the future regeneration of man , represented in Greece by the beautiful myth of Pandora 's box ; and , finally , in the doctrine of eternal rewards and punishments . Each one of these strictly true dogmas underwent more or less of alteration in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was , nevertheless , everywhere preserved in some shape or form . At what precise epoch did mankind begin wrongfully to interpret these primitive traditions ? When did the worship of idols arise and become universal ? No one can tell precisely . All we know for certain is , that a thousand years before Christ idolatry prevailed everywhere , and that even the Jewish people often fell into this sin , and were only brought back by means of punishment to the worship of the true God . But if error tainted the whole system of worship among nations , it differed in the various races of men according to the variety of their character . Ferocity or mildness of manners , acuteness or obtuseness of understanding , activity or indolence of disposition , a burning , a cold , or a temperate climate , a smiling or dreary country , but chiefly the thousand differences of temper which are as marked among mankind as the almost in-finite variety of forms visible in creation , gave to each individual religion its proper and characteristic types , which in after-times , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imparted to the universal Christian spirit a peculiar outward form in each people , an interior adaptation to its peculiar dispositions , destined in the Divine plan to introduce into the future Catholic Church the beautiful variety requisite to make its very universality possible among mankind . To enter into details on the Celtic religion would carry us beyond due limits . The question as to whether the ancient Celts were idolaters or not still remains undecided , though in France alone more than six hundred volumes have been written on the subject . Julius Caesar believed that they were worshippers of idols in the same sense as his own countrymen ; but he probably stood alone in his opinion . Aristotle , Pythagoras , Polyhistor , Ammianus Marcellinus , considered the Druids as monotheist philosophers . Most of the Greek writers agreed with them , as did all the Alexandrian Fathers of the Church in the third and fourth centuries . Among the moderns the majority leans to a contrary opinion ; nevertheless , many authors of weight , distinguishing the public worship of the common people from the doctrine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ caste . Samuel F. N. Morus particularly , who , with J. A. Ernesti , was esteemed the master of antiquarian scholarship in Europe during the last century , maintains , in his edition of the " Commentaries " of Caesar , that " human beings , as well as human affairs , fortunes , travels , and wars , were thought by the Celts to be governed and ruled by one supreme God , and that the system of apotheosis , common to nearly all ancient nations , was totally unknown in ancient Gaul , Britain , and the adjacent islands . " The ancient authorities concurring with these conclusions are so numerous and clear spoken that the great historian of Gaul , Amedee Thierry , thinks that such a pure and mystic religion , joined to such a sublime philosophy , could not have been the product of the soil . In his endeavor to investigate its origin , he supposes that it was brought to the west of Europe by the Eastern Cymris of the first invasion ; that it was adopted by the higher classes of society @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ among the lower orders . The unity and omnipotence of the Godhead , metempsychosis , or the doctrine and the transmigration of soul  --  not into the bodies of animals , as it obtained and still obtains in the East , but into those of other human beings  --  the eternal duration of existing substances , material and spiritual , consequently the immortality of the human soul , were the chief dogmas of the Druids , according to the majority of antiquarians . If this be true , then it can be said boldly that , with the exception of revealed religion in Judea , which was always far more explicit and pure , no system can be found in ancient times superior to that of the Druids , more especially if we add that , in addition to religious teaching , a whole system of physics was also developed in their large academies . " They dispute , " says Caesar , " on the stars and their motions , on the size of the universe and of this earth , on the nature of physical things , as well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " To bring our question home , what were the religious belief and worship of the Irish Celts while still pagans ? Very few positive facts are known on the subject ; but we have data enough to show what they were not ; and in such cases negative proofs are amply sufficient . It was for a long time the fashion with Irish historians to attribute to their ancestors the wildest forms of ancient idolatry . They appeared to consider it a point of national honor to make the worship of Erin an exact reflex of Eastern , Grecian , or Roman polytheism . They erected on the slightest foundations grand structures of superstitious and abominable rites . Fire-worship , Phoenician or African horrors , the rankest idol-worship , even human sacrifices of the most revolting nature , were , according to them , of almost daily occurrence in Ireland . But , with the advancement of antiquarian knowledge , all those phantoms have successively disappeared ; and , the more the ancient customs , literature , and history of the island are studied , the more it becomes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vagaries are really without foundation . In the first place , there is not the slightest reason to believe that the human sacrifices customary in Gaul were ever practised in Ireland . No really ancient book makes any mention of them . They were certainly not in vogue at the time of St. Patrick , as he could not have failed to give expression to his horror at them in some shape or form , which expression would have been recorded in one , at least , of the many lives of the saint , written shortly after his death , and abounding in details of every kind . If not , then , during his long apostleship , we may safely conclude that they never took place before , as there was no reason for their discontinuance prior to the propagation of Christianity . There was a time when all the large cromlechs which abound in the island were believed to be sacrificial stones ; and it is highly probable that the opinion so prevalent during the last century with respect to the reality of those cruel rites had its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many investigations and excavations around and under cromlechs of all sizes , it is now admitted by all well-informed antiquarians that they had no connection with sacrifices of any kind . They were merely monuments raised over the buried bodies of chieftains or heroes . Many sepulchres of that description have been opened , either under cromlechs or under large mounds ; great quantities of ornaments of gold , silver , or precious stones , utensils of various materials , beautiful works of great artistic merit , have been discovered there , and now go to fill the museums of the nation or private cabinets . Nothing connected with religious rites of any description has met the eyes of the learned seekers after truth . Thus it has been ascertained that the old race had reached a high degree of material civilization ; but no clew to its religion has been furnished . As to fire-worship , which not long ago was admitted by all as certainly forming a part of the Celtic religion in Ireland , so little of that opinion remains to-day that it is scarcely deserving of mention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , formerly so numerous in Ireland , had nothing whatever to do with fire-worship . For a long time they were believed to have been constructed for no other object , and consequently long prior to the coming of St. Patrick . But Dr. Petrie and other antiquarians have all but demonstrated that the round towers never had any connection with superstition or idolatry at all ; that they were of Christian origin , always built near some Christian church , and of the same materials , and had for their object to call the faithful to prayer , like the campanile of Italy , to be a place of refuge for the clergy in time of war , and to give to distant villages intimation of any hostile invasion . The fact in the life of St. Patrick , when he appeared before the court of King Laeghaire , upon which so much reliance is placed as a proof of the existence of fire-worship , is now of proportionate weakness . It seems , to judge by the most reliable and ancient manuscripts , that , after all , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ act . McGeoghegan , whose history is compiled , from the best-authenticated documents , says : " When the monarch convened an assembly , or held a festival at Tara , it was customary to make a bonfire on the preceding day , and it was forbidden to light another fire in any other place at the same time , in the territory of Breagh . " This is all ; and the probable cause of the prohibition was to do honor to the king . Had it been an act of worship , Patrick , in lighting his own paschal-fire , would not only have shown disrespect to the monarch , but in the eyes of the people committed a sacrilege , which could scarcely have missed mention by the careful historians of the time . But the proof that we are right in our interpretation of the ceremony is clear , from the following passage , taken from the work of Prof. Curry on " Early Irish Manuscripts : " " We see , by the book of military expeditions , that , when King Dathi  --  the immediate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of conquering Britain and Gaul , he invited the states of the nation to meet him at Tara , at the approaching feast of Baltaine ( one of the great pagan festivals of ancient Erin ) on May-day . " The feast of Tara this year was solemnized on a scale of splendor never before equalled . The fires of Lailten ( now called Lelltown in the north of Ireland ) were lighted , and the sports , games , and ceremonies , were conducted with unusual magnificence and solemnity . " These games and solemnities are said to have been instituted more than a thousand years previously by Lug , in honor of Lailte , the daughter of the King of Spain , and wife of MacEire , the last king of the Firbolg colony . It was at her court that Lug had been fostered , and at her death he had her buried at this place , where he raised an immense mound over her grave , and instituted those annual games in her honor . " These games were solemnized about the first day of August , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ century " - therefore , in Christian times-and consequently the lighting of the fires had as little connection with fire-worship as the games with pagan rites . A more serious difficulty meets us in the destruction of Crom Cruagh by St. Patrick , and it is important to consider how far Crom Cruagh could really be called an idol . With regard to the statues of Celtic gods , all the researches and excavations which the most painstaking of antiquarians have undertaken , especially of late years , have never resulted in the discovery , not of the statue of a god , but of any pagan sign whatever in Ireland . It is clear , from the numerous details of the life of St. Patrick , that he never encountered either temples or the statues of gods in any place , although occasional mention is made of idols . The only fact which startles the reader is the holy zeal which moved him to strike with his " baculus Jesu " the monstrous Crom Cruagh , with its twelve " sub-gods . " In all his travels through Ireland-and there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evangelize-St . Patrick meets with only one idol , or rather group of idols , situated in the County Cavan , which was an object of veneration to the people . Nowhere else are idols to be found , or the saint would have thought it his duty to destroy them also . This first fact certainly places the Irish in a position , with regard to idolatry , far different from that of all other polytheist nations . In all other countries it is characteristic of polytheism to multiply the statues of the gods , to expose them in all public places , in their houses , but chiefly within or at the door of edifices erected for the purpose . Yet in Ireland we find nothing of the kind , with the exception of Crom Cruagh . The holy apostle of the nation goes on preaching , baptizing , converting people , without finding any worship of gods of stone or metal ; he only hears that there is something of the kind in a particular spot , and he has to travel a great distance in order to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ venerating it . But what was that idol ? According to the majority of expounders of Irish history , it was a golden sphere or ball representing the sun , with twelve cones or pillars of brass , around it , typifying , probably , astronomical signs . St. Patrick , in his " Confessio , " seems to allude to Crom Cruagh when he says : " That sun which we behold by the favor of God rises for us every day ; but its splendor will not shine forever ; nay , even all those who adore it shall be miserably punished . " The Bollandists , in a note on this passage of the " Confessio , " think that it might refer to Crom Cruagh , which possibly represented the sun , surrounded by the signs of the twelve months , through which it describes its orbit during the year . We know that the Druids were , perhaps , better versed in the science of astronomy than the scholars of any other nation at the time . It was not in Gaul and Britain only that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years ; the same fact is attested for Ireland by authorities whose testimony is beyond question . May we not suppose that a representation of mere heavenly phenomena , set in a conspicuous position , had in course of time become the object of the superstitious veneration of the people , and that St. Patrick thought it his duty to destroy it ? And the attitude of the people at the time of its destruction shows that it could not have borne for them the same sacred character as the statue of Minerva in the Parthenon did for the Greeks or that of Capitoline Jove for the Romans . Can we suppose that St. Paul or St. Peter would have dared to break either of these ? And let us remark that the event we discuss occurred at the very beginning of St. Patrick 's ministry , and before he had yet acquired that great authority over the minds of all which afterward enabled him fearlessly to accomplish whatever his zeal prompted him to do . Whatever explanation of the whole occurrence may be given , we doubt if we shall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ considerations arising from it justify the opinion that the Irish Celts were not idolaters like all other peoples of antiquity . They possessed no mythology beyond harmless fairy-tales , no poetical histories of gods and goddesses to please the imagination and the senses , and invest paganism with such an attractive garb as to cause it to become a real obstacle to the spread of Christianity . Moreover , what we have said concerning the belief in the omnipotence of one supreme God , whatever might be his nature , as the first dogma of Druidism , would seem to have lain deep in the minds of the Irish Celts , and caused their immediate comprehension and reception of monotheism , as preached by St. Patrick , and the facility with which they accepted it . They were certainly , even when pagans , a very religious people ; otherwise how could they have embraced the doctrines of Christianity with that ardent eagerness which shall come under our consideration in the next chapter ? A nation utterly devoid of faith of any kind is not apt to be moved , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the first sight of supernatural truths , such as those of Christianity . And so little were they attached to paganism , so visibly imbued with reverence for the supreme God of the universe , that , as soon as announced , they accepted the dogma . The simple and touching story of the conversion of the two daughters of King Laeghaire will give point and life to this very important consideration . It is taken from the " Book of Armagh , " which Prof. O'Curry , who is certainly a competent authority , believes older than the year 727 , when the popular Irish traditions regarding St. Patrick must have still been almost as vivid as immediately after his death . St. Patrick and his attendants being assembled at sunrise at the fountain of Clebach , near Cruachan in Connaught , Ethne and Felimia , daughters of King Laeghaire , came to bathe , and found at the well the holy men . " And they knew not whence they were , or in what form , or from what people , or from what country ; but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that is to say , gods of the earth , or a phantasm . " And the virgins said unto them : ' Who are ye , and whence are ye ? ' " And Patrick said unto them : ' It were better for you to confess to our true God , than to inquire concerning our race . ' " The first virgin said : Who is God ? " ' And where is God ? " ' And where is his dwelling-place ? " ' Has God sons and daughters , gold and silver ? " ' Is he living ? " ' Is he beautiful ? " ' Did many foster his son ? " ' Are his daughters dear and beauteous to men of this world ? " ' Is he in heaven or on earth ? " ' In the sea ?  --  In rivers ?  --  In mountainous places ?  --  In valleys ? " ' Declare unto us the knowledge of him ? " ' How shall he be seen ? - How shall he be loved ? - How is he to be found @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in old age that he is to be found ? ' " But St. Patrick , full of the Holy Ghost , answered and said : " ' Our God is the God of all men-the God of heaven and earth-of the sea and rivers . The God of the sun , and the moon , and all stars . The God of the high mountains , and of the lowly valleys . The God who is above heaven , and in heaven , and under heaven . " ' He has a habitation in the heavens , and the earth , and the sea , and all that are thereon . " ' He inspireth all things . He quickeneth all things . He is over all things . " ' He hath a Son coeternal and coequal with himself . The Son is not younger than the Father , nor the Father older than the Son . And the Holy Ghost breatheth in them . The Father , and the Son , and the Holy Ghost , are not divided . " ' But I desire to unite you @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an earthly king . Do you believe ? ' " And the virgins said , as of one mouth and one heart : Teach us most diligently how we may believe in the heavenly King . Show us how we may see him face to face , and whatsoever you shall say unto us we will do . ' " And Patrick said : ' Believe ye that by baptism you put off the sin of your father and your mother ? ' " They answered him , ' We believe . ' " ' Believe ye in repentance after sin ? ' We believe . . . ' etc . " And they were baptized , and a white garment was put upon their heads . And they asked to see the face of Christ . And the saint said unto them : ' Ye can not see the face of Christ except ye taste of death , and except ye receive the sacrifice . ' " And they answered : ' Give us the sacrifice that we may behold the Son our spouse . ' " And they received @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " And they were laid out on one bed-covered with garments - and their friends made great lamentations and weeping for them . " This beautiful legend expresses to the letter the way in which the Irish received the faith . Nor was it simple virgins only who understood and believed so suddenly at the preaching of the apostle . The great men of the nation were as eager almost as the common people to receive baptism : the conversion of Dubtach is enough to show this . He was a Druid , being the chief poet of King Laeghaire  --  all poets belonging to the order . After the wife , the brothers , and the two daughters of the monarch , he was the most illustrious convert gained by Patrick at the beginning of his apostleship . He became a Christian at the first appearance of the saint at Tara , and immediately began to sing in verse his new belief , as he had formerly sung the heroes of his nation . To the end he remained firm in his faith , and a dear friend to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and all the chief converts of Patrick , have believed so suddenly and so constantly in the God of the Christians , if their former life had not prepared them for the adoption of the new doctrine , and if the doctrine of monotheism had offered a real difficulty to their understanding ? There was , probably , nothing clear and definite in their belief in an omnipotent God , which is said to have been the leading dogma of Druidism ; but their simple minds had evidently a leaning toward the doctrine , which induced them to approve of it , as soon as it was presented to them with a solemn affirmation . In order to elucidate this point , we add a short description of the labors and success of this apostle . In the year 432 , Patrick lands on the island . By that time , some few of the inhabitants may possibly have heard of the Christian religion from the neighboring Britain or Gaul . Palladius had preached the year before in the district known as the present counties of Wexford and Wicklow , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it may be said that Ireland continued in the same state it had preserved for thousands of years : the Druids in possession of religious and scientific supremacy ; the chieftains in contention , as in the time of Fingal and Ossian ; the people , though in the midst of constant strife , happy enough on their rich soil , cheered by their bards and poets ; very few , or no slaves in the country ; an abundance of food everywhere ; gold , silver , precious stones adorning profusely the persons of their chiefs , their wives , their warriors ; rich stuffs , dyed with many colors , to distinguish the various orders of society ; a deep religious feeling in their hearts , preparing them for the faith , by inspiring them with lively emotions at the sight of divine power displayed in their mountains , their valleys , their lakes and rivers , and on the swelling bosom of the all-encircling ocean ; superstitions of various kinds , indeed , but none of a demoralizing character , none involving marks of cruelty or lust ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cybele ; no obscene emblems of religion , as in all other lands , to confront Christianity ; but over all the island , song , festivity , deep affection for kindred ; and , as though blood-relationship could not satisfy their heart , fosterage covering the land with other brothers and sisters ; all permeated with a strong attachment to their clan-system and social customs . Such is an exact picture of the Erin of the time , which the study of antiquity brings clearer and clearer before the eyes of the modern student . Patrick appears among them , leaning on his staff , and bringing them from Rome and Gaul new songs in a new language set to a new melody . He comes to unveil for them what lies hidden , unknown to themselves , in the depths of their hearts . He explains , by the power of one Supreme God , why it is that their mountains are so high , their valley so smiling , their rivers and lakes teeming with life , their fountains so fresh and cool , and that sun of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and stars , lighted with a soft radiance , shimmering over the deep obscurity of their groves . He directs them to look into their own consciences , to admit themselves to be sinners in need of redemption , and points out to them in what manner that Supreme God , whom they half knew already , condescended to save man . Straightway , from all parts of the island , converts flock to him ; they come in crowds to be baptized , to embrace the new law by which they may read their own hearts ; they are ready to do whatever he wishes ; many , not content with the strict commandments enjoined on all , wish to enter on the path of perfection : the men become monks , the women and young girls nuns , that is to say , spouses of Christ . In Munster alone " it would be difficult , " says a modern writer , Father Brenan , " to form an estimate of the number of converts he made , and even of the churches and religious establishments he founded . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ island . The proof 's still stand before our eyes . For , as Prof. Curry justly remarks : " No one , who examines for himself , can doubt that at the first preaching in Erin of the glad tidings of salvation , by Saints Palladius and Patrick , those countless Christian churches were built , whose sites and ruins mark so thickly the surface of our country even to this day , still bearing through all the vicissitudes of time and conquest the unchanged names of their original founders . " According to the commonly-received opinion , St. Patrick 's apostleship lasted thirty-three years ; but , whatever may have been its real duration , certain it is that his feet traversed the whole island several times , and , at his passing , churches and monasteries sprang up in great numbers , and remained to tell the true story of his labors when their founder had passed away . Nor was it with Ireland as with Rome , Carthage , Antioch , and other great cities of Europe , Africa , and Asia . Not the slaves and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the first men of the nation received baptism . We have already spoken of the family of Laeghaire . In Connaught , at the first appearance of the man of God , all the inhabitants of that portion of the province now represented by the County Mayo became Christians ; and the seven sons of the king of the province were baptized , together with twelve thousand of their clansmen . In Leinster , the Princes Illand and Alind were baptized in a fountain near Naas . In Munster , Aengus , the King of Cashel , with all the nobility of his clan , embraced the faith . A number of chieftains in Thomond are also mentioned ; and the whole of the Dalcassian tribe , so celebrated before and after in the annals of Ireland , received , with the waters of baptism , that ardent faith which nothing has been able to tear from them to this day . Many Druids even , by renouncing their superstitions , abdicated their power over the people . We have mentioned Dubtach ; his example was followed by many others , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who is said to have suffered martyrdom in Brittany ; Fiech , pupil of Dubtach , himself a poet , and belonging to the noble house of Hy-Baircha in Leinster , was raised by St. Patrick to the episcopacy , and was the first occupant of the See of Sletty . Fiech was a regular member of the bardic order of Druids , a poet by profession , esteemed as a learned man even before he embraced Christianity ; and during his lifetime he was , as a Christian bishop , consulted by numbers and regarded as an oracle of truth and heavenly wisdom . Nevertheless , Patrick encountered opposition . Some chieftains declared themselves against him , without daring openly to attack him . Many Druids , called in the old Irish annals magi , tried their utmost to estrange the Irish people from him . But he stood in danger of his life only once . It was , in fact , a war of argument . Long discussions took place , with varied success , ending generally , however , in a victory for truth . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ St. Patrick , there existed not a single pagan in the whole of Ireland ; the very remembrance of paganism even seemed to have passed away from their minds ever after ; hence arises the difficulty of deciding now on the character of that paganism . After its abolition , nothing remained in the literature of the country , which was at that time much more copious than at present  --  nothing was left in its monuments or in the inclinations of the people  --  to imperil the existence of the newly-established Christianity , or of a nature calculated to give a wrong bias to the religious worship of the people , such as we have seen was the case in the rest of Europe . May we not conclude , then , that Ireland was much better prepared for the new religion than any other country ; that , when she was thus admitted by baptism into the European family , she made her entry in a way peculiar to herself , and which secured to her , once for all , her firm and undeviating attachment to truth ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ renounced the few disconnected superstitions to which she had been addicted . Her songs , her bards , her festivities , her patriarchal government , her fosterage , were left to her , Christianized and consecrated by her great apostle ; clanship even penetrated into the monasteries , and gave rise later on to some abuses . But , perhaps , the saint thought it better to allow the existence of things which might lead to abuse than violently and at once to subvert customs , rooted by age in the very nature of the people , some of which it cost England , later on , centuries of inconceivable barbarities to eradicate . As to what exact form , if any , the paganism of the Irish Celts assumed , we have so few data to build upon that it is now next to impossible to shape a system out of them . From the passage of the " Confessio " already quoted , we might infer that they adored the sun ; and this passage is very remarkable as the only mention anywhere made by St. Patrick of idolatry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Supreme Being , then would there have been nothing idolatrous in its worship ; and the strong terms in which the saint condemns it perhaps need only express his fear lest the superstition of the ignorant people might convert veneration into positive idolatry . At all events , there was not a statue , or a temple , or a theological system , erected to or connected with it in any shape . The solemn forms of oaths taken and administered by the Irish kings would also lead us to infer that they paid a superstitious respect to the winds and the other elements . But why should this feeling pass beyond that which even the Christian experiences when confronted by mysteries in the natural as well as the supernatural order ? The awe-struck pagan saw the lightning leap , the tempest gather and break over him in majestic fury ; heard the great voice of the mighty ocean which laved or lashed his shores : he witnessed these wonderful effects ; he knew not whence the tempests or the lightnings came , or the voice of the ocean @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  at his God . So his imagination peopled his groves and hill-sides , his rivers and lakes , with harmless fairies ; but fairy land has never become among any nation a pandemonium of cruel divinities ; and we doubt much if such innocuous superstition can be rightly called even sinful error . In fact , the only thing which could render paganism truly a danger in Ireland , as opposed to the preaching of Christianity , was the body of men intrusted with the care of religion  --  the Druids , the magi of the chronicles . But , as we find no traces of bloody sacrifices in Ireland , the Druids there probably never bore the character which they did in Gaul ; they can not be said to have been sacrificing priests ; their office consisted merely in pretended divinations , or the workings of incantations or spells . They also introduced superstition into the practice of medicine , and taught the people to venerate the elements or mysterious forces of this world . Without mentioning any of the many instances which are found in the histories @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the consulting of the clouds , and the ceremonies with which they surrounded their healing art , we go straight to our main point : the ease and suddenness with which all these delusions vanished at the first preaching of the Gospel  --  a fact very telling on the force which they exercised over the mind of the nation . All natural customs , games , festivities , social relationships , as we have seen , are preserved , many to this day ; what is esteemed as their religion , and its ceremonies and superstitions , is dropped at once . The entire Irish mind expanded freely and generously at the simple announcement of a God , present everywhere in the universe , and accepted it . The dogma of the Holy Spirit , not only filling all  --  complens omnia --  but dwelling in their very souls by grace , and filling them with love and fear , must have appeared natural to them . Their very superstitions must have prepared the way for the truth , a change  --  or may we not say a more direct and tangible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  was alone requisite . Otherwise it is a hard fact to explain how , within a few years , all Druidism and magic , incantations , spells , and divinations , were replaced by pure religion , by the doctrine of celestial favors obtained through prayer , by the intercession of a host of saints in heaven , and the belief in Christian miracles and prophecies ; whereas , scarcely any thing of Roman or Grecian mythology could be replaced by corresponding Christian practices , although popes did all they could in that regard . Nearly all the errors of the Irish Celts had their corresponding truths and holy practices in Christianity , which could be readily substituted for them , and envelop them immediately with distrust or just oblivion . Hence we do not see , in the subsequent ecclesiastical history of Ireland , any thing to resemble the short sketch we have given of the many dangers arising within the young Christian Church , which had their origin in the former religion of other European nations . In regarding philosophy and its perils in Ireland , our task @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its bearings on subsequent considerations . The minds of nations differ as greatly as their physical characteristics ; and to study the Irish mind we have only to take into consideration the institutions which swayed it from time immemorial . They were of such a nature that they could but belong to a traditional people . All patriarchal tribes partake of that general character ; none , perhaps , so strikingly as the Celts . People thus disposed have nothing rationalistic in their nature ; they accept old facts ; and , if they reason upon them , it is to find proofs to support , not motives to doubt them . They never refine their discussions to hair-splitting , synonymous almost with rejection , as seems to be the delight of what we call rationalistic races . It was among these that philosophy was born , and among them it flourishes . They may , by their acute reasoning , enlarge the human mind , open up new horizons , and , if confined within just limits , actually enrich the understanding of man . We are far from pretending @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that it were a blessed thing had the human intellect always remained , as it were , in a dormant state , without ever striving to grasp at philosophic truth and raise itself above the common level ; we hold the great names of Augustine , Anselm , Thomas Aquinas , and so many others , in too great respect to entertain such an opinion . Yet it can not be denied that the excessive study of philosophy has produced many evils among men , has often been subservient to error , has , at best , been for many minds the source of a cold and desponding skepticism . No race of men , perhaps , has been less inclined to follow those intellectual aberrations than the Celtic , owing chiefly to its eminently traditional dispositions . Before Christianity reached them , the intellectual labors of the Celts were chiefly confined to history and genealogy , medicine and botany , law , song , music , and artistic workings in metals and gems . This was the usual curriculum of Druidic studies . Astronomy and the physical sciences , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eternal God , " were , according to Caesar , extensively studied in the Gallic schools . Some elements of those intellectual pursuits may also have occupied the attention of the Irish student during the twelve , fifteen , or twenty years of his preparation for being ordained to the highest degree of ollamh . But the oldest and most reliable documents which have been examined so far do not allow us to state positively that such was the case to any great extent . In Christian times , however , it seems certain that astronomy was better studied in Ireland than anywhere else , as is proved by the extraordinary impulse given to that science by Virgil of Salzburg , who was undoubtedly an Irishman , and educated in his native country . It is from the Church alone , therefore , that they received their highest intellectual training in the philosophy and theology of the Scriptures and of the Fathers . It is known that , by the introduction of the Latin and Greek tongues into their schools in addition to the vernacular , the Bible in Latin and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ languages , as also the most celebrated works of Roman and Greek classical writers , became most interesting subjects of study . They reproduced those works for their own use in the scriptoria of their numerous monasteries . We still possess some of those manuscripts of the sixth and following centuries , and none more beautiful or correct can be found among those left by the English , French , or Italian monastic institutions of the periods mentioned . During the seventh , eighth , and ninth centuries , the Irish schools became celebrated all over Europe . Young Anglo-Saxons of the best families were sent to receive their education in Innisfail , as the island was then often called ; and , from their celebrated institutions of learning , numerous teachers and missionaries went forth to England , Germany ( along the Rhine , chiefly ) , France , and even Switzerland and Italy . Yet , in the history of all those intellectual labors , we never read of startling theories in philosophy or theology advanced by any of them , unless we except the eccentric John Scotus Erigena @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resided , protected even against the just severity of the Church . Without ever having studied theology , he undertook to dogmatize , and would perhaps have originated some heresy , had he found a following in Germany or France . But he is the only Irishman who ever threatened the peace of the Church , and , through her , of the world . Duns Scotus , if he were Irish , never taught any error , and remained always an accepted leader in Catholic schools . To the honor of Erin be it said , her children have ever been afraid to deviate in the least from the path of faith . And it would be wrong to imagine that the preservation from heresy so peculiar to them , and by which they are broadly distinguished from all other European nations , comes from dulness of intellect and inability to follow out an intricate argumentation . They show the acuteness of their understanding in a thousand ways ; in poetry , in romantic tales , in narrative compositions , in legal acumen and extempore arguments , in the study @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so many of them are distinguished . Who shall say that they might not also have reached a high degree of eminence in philosophical discussions and ontological theories ? They have always abstained from such studies by reason of a natural disinclination , which does them honor , and which has saved them in modern times , as we shall see in a subsequent chapter , from the innumerable evils which afflict society everywhere else , and by which it is even threatened with destruction . Thus , among the numerous and versatile progeny of Japhet one small branch has kept itself aloof from the universal movement of the whole family ; and , in the very act of accepting Christianity and taking a place in the commonwealth of Western nations , it has known how to do so in its own manner , and has thus secured a firm hold of the saving doctrines imparted to the whole race for a great purpose  --  the purpose , unfortunately often defeated  --  of reducing to practice and reality the sublime ideal of the Christian religion . The details given in this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our holy faith into Ireland were necessarily very limited , as our chief object was to speak of the nation 's preparation for it . In the following we treat directly of what could only be touched upon in the latter part of this . CHAPTER IV . HOW THE IRISH RECEIVED CHRISTIANITY . For the conversion of pagans to Christianity , many exterior proofs of revelation were vouchsafed by God to man in addition to the interior impulse of his grace . Those exterior proofs are generally termed " the evidences of religion . " They produce their chief effect on inquiring minds which are familiar with the reasoning processes of philosophy , and attach great importance to truth acquired by logical deduction . To this , many pagans of Greece and Rome owed their conversion ; by this , in our days , many strangers are brought , on reflection , to the faith of Christ , always presupposing the paramount influence of divine grace on their minds and hearts . But it is easy to remark that , except in rare cases , those who are gained over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brought under the influence of the supernatural , which forms the essential groundwork of Christianity . This influence , it is true , is only the effect of the operation of the Holy Ghost on the soul of the convert ; but the Holy Ghost acts in conformity with the disposition of the soul ; and we know , by what has been said on the character of religion among the Romans and the Greeks in the earlier days of the Church , that it took long ages , the infusion of Northern blood , and the simplicity of new races uncontaminated by heathen mythology , to inspire men with that deep supernatural feeling which in course of time became the distinguishing character of the ages of faith . Ireland imbibed this feeling at once , and thus she received Christianity more thoroughly , at the very beginning , than did any other Western nation . The fact is  --  whatever may be thought or said  --  the Christian religion , with all the loveliness it imparts to this world when rightly understood , though never destroying Nature , but always @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , truly endowed , consequently , with the promises of earth as well as those of heaven  --  the Christian religion is nevertheless fundamentally supernatural , full of awe and mystery , heavenly and incomprehensible , before being earthly and the grateful object of sense . Without examining the various formularies which heresy compelled an infallible Church to proclaim and impose upon her children from time to time , the Apostles ' Creed alone transfers man at once into regions supernatural , into heaven itself . The Trinity , the Incarnation , the Redemption , the mission of the Hold Ghost on earth , the communion of saints , the forgiveness of sins , and the resurrection of the dead , are all mysteries necessitating a revelation on the part of God himself to make them known to and believed by man . Do they not place man , even while on earth , in direct communication with heaven ? The firm believer in those mysteries is already a celestial citizen by faith and hope . He has acquired a new life , new senses , as it were , new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , above Nature . And it is clear , from many passages of the New Testament , that our Lord wished the lives of his disciples to be wholly penetrated with that supernatural essence . They were not to be men of the earth , earthly , but citizens of another country which is heavenly and eternal . Hence the holiness and perfection required of them  --  a holiness , according to Christ , like that of the celestial Father himself ; hence contempt for the things of this world , so strongly recommended by our Lord ; hence the assurance that men are called to be sons of God , the eternal Son having become incarnate to acquire for us this glorious privilege ; hence , finally , that frequent recommendation in the Gospel to rely on God for the things of this life , and to look above all for spiritual blessings . That reliance is set forth in such terms , in the Sermon on the Mount , that , taken literally , man should neglect entirely his temporal advantages , forget entirely Nature , and think only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Nature would be given us by our heavenly Father " who knows that we need them . " Nature , consequently , assumes a new aspect in this system . It is no longer a complexity of temporal goods within reach of the efforts of man , and which it rests with man alone to procure for himself . It is , indeed , a worldly treasure , belonging to God , as all else , and which the hand of God scatters profusely among his creatures . God will not fail to grant to every one what he needs , if he have faith . Thus God is always visible in Nature ; and redeemed man , raised far above the beasts of the field , has other eyes than those of the body , when he looks around him on this world . Had Christianity been literally understood by those who first received it , it would have completely changed the moral , social , and even natural aspect of the universe . The change produced throughout by the new religion was indeed remarkable , but not what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complete possession of human society . This it did in Ireland , and , it may be said , in Ireland alone . To begin with the preaching of St. Patrick , we note his care to impart to his converts a sufficient knowledge of the Christian mysteries , but , above all , to make those mysteries influence their lives by acting more powerfully on the new Christian heart than even on the mind . Thus , in the beautiful legend of Ethne and Felimia , the saint , not content with instructing them on the attributes of God , the Trinity , and other supernatural truths , goes further still ; he requires a change in their whole being  --  that it be spiritualized : by deeply exciting their feelings , by speaking of Christ as their spouse , by making them wish to receive him in the holy Eucharist , even at the expense of their temporal life , he so raises them above Nature that they actually asked to die . " And they received the Eucharist of God , and they slept in death . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spirit , which consists in an intimate union with God and Christ , is so admirably expressed , that we can not refrain from presenting an extract from it , remarking that this beautiful hymn has been the great prayer of all Irishmen through all ages down even to our own times , though , unfortunately , it is not now so generally known and used by them as formerly : " At Tara , to-day , may the strength of God pilot me , may the power of God preserve me , may the wisdom of God instruct me , may the eye of God view me , may the ear of God hear me , may the word of God render me eloquent , may the hand of God protect me , may the way of God direct me , may the shield of God defend me , etc . " Christ be with me , Christ before me , Christ after me , Christ in me , Christ under me , Christ over me , Christ at my right , Christ at my left ; . . . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speak to , Christ in the mouth of each person who speaks to me , Christ in each eye which sees me , Christ in each ear which hears me ! " Could any thing tend more powerfully to make of those whom he converted , true supernatural Christians  --  forgetful of this world , thinking only of another and a brighter one ? The island , at his coming , was a prey to preternatural superstitions . The Druids possessed , in the opinion of the people , a power beyond that of man ; and history shows the same phenomenon in all pagan countries , not excepting those of our time . A real supernatural power was required to overcome that of the magi . Hence , according to Probus , the magicians to whom the arrival of Patrick had been foretold , prepared themselves for the contest , and several chieftains supported them . Prestiges were , therefore , tried in antagonism to miracles ; but , as Moses prevailed over the power of the Egyptian priests , so did Patrick over the Celtic magicians . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contests . The princes were sometimes also punished with death . Recraid , head of a clan , came with his Druids and with words of incantation written under his white garments ; he fell dead . Laeghaire himself , the Ard-Righ of all Ireland , whose family became Christian , but who refused to abandon his superstitions , perished with his numerous attendants . But a more singular phenomenon was , that death , which was often the punishment of unbelief , became as often a boon to be desired by the new Christian converts , so completely were they under the influence of the supernatural . Thus Ruis found it hard to believe . To strengthen his faith , Patrick restored to him his youth , and then gave him the choice between this sweet blessing of life and the happiness of heaven ; Ruis preferred to die , like Ethne and Felimia . Sechnall , the bard , told St. Patrick , one day , that he wished to sing the praises of a saint whom the earth still possessed . " Hasten , then , " said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ death . " Sechnall , not only undisturbed , but full of joy , sang a glorious hymn in honor of Patrick , and immediately after died . Kynrecha came to the convent-door of St. Senan . " What have women in common with monks ? " said the holy abbot . " We will not receive thee . " " Before I leave this place , " responded Kynrecha , " I offer this prayer to God , that my soul may leave the body . " And she sank down and expired . The various lives of the apostle of Ireland and his successors are full of facts of this nature . Supposing that a high coloring was given to some of these by the writers , one thing is certain : the people who lived during that apostleship believed in them firmly , and handed down their belief to their children . Moreover , nothing was better calculated to give to a primitive people , like the Irish , a strong supernatural spirit and character , than to make them despise the joys of this earth and yearn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ too many facts of a similar kind related in the lives of St. Patrick and his fellow-workers , to bear the imputation , not of imposition , but even of delusion . The desire of dying , to be united with Christ ; the indifference , at least , as to the prolongation of existence ; the readiness , if not the joy , with which the announcement of death was received , are of such frequent mention in those old legends , as matters of ordinary occurrence , surprising no one , that they must be conceded as facts often taking place in those early ages . And , more striking still , this feeling of accepting death , either as a boon or as a matter of course , and with perfect resignation to the will of God , seems to have been throughout , since the introduction of Christianity , a characteristic of the Irish people . It is often witnessed in our own days , and manifested , equally by the young , the middle-aged , or the old . The young , closing their eyes to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tasted , never murmur at being deprived of it , though hope is to them so alluring ; the middle-aged , called away in the midst of projects yet unaccomplished , see the sudden end of all that before interested them , with no other concern than for the children they leave behind them ; the old , among other races generally so tenacious of life , are , as a rule , glad that their last hour has come , and speak only of their joy that at last they " go home " to that country whither so many of their friends and kindred have gone before them . This in itself would stamp the Celtic character with an indelible mark , distinguishing it from all other , even most Christian , peoples . The second sign we find of the firm hold the supernatural had taken of the Irish from the very beginning is their strong belief in the power of the priesthood . This is so striking among them that they have been called by their enemies and those of the Church " a priest-ridden people . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If Christianity be true , what is the priesthood ? Even among the Greeks , from whom so many heresies formerly sprang before they were smitten into insignificance by schism and its punishment  - -  Turkish slavery  --  when the great doctors sent them by Providence spoke on the subject , what were their words , and what impression did they make on their supercilious hearers ? St. John Chrysostom will answer . His long treatise , written to his friend Basil , is but a glowing description of the great privileges given to the Christian priest by the High-Priest himself  --  Christ our Lord . When the great preacher of Antioch , though not yet a priest , describes the awful moment of sacrifice , the altar surrounded by angels descended from heaven , the man consecrated to an office higher than any on earth , and as high as that of the incarnate Son of God  --  God himself coming down from above and bringing down heaven with him  --  who can believe in Christianity and fail to be struck with awe ? Who can read the words of Christ , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by him as he was himself sent by his Father , and not feel the innate respect due to such divine honors ? Who can read the details of those privileges with respect to the remission of sin , the conferring of grace by the sacraments , the infallible teaching of truth , the power even granted to them sometimes over Nature and disease , without feeling himself transported into a world far above this , and without placing his confidence in what God himself has declared so powerful and preeminent in the regions beyond ? Such , in a few words , is the Christian priesthood , if Christianity possesses any reality and is not an imposture . Among all nations , therefore , where sound faith exists , the greatest respect is shown to the ministers of God ; but the Irish have at all times been most persistent in their veneration and trust . And if we would ascertain the cause of their standing in this regard , we shall find that other nations , while firmly believing the words of Christ , keep their eyes open to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suspicion on the conduct of men invested with so high a dignity , but subject at the same time to earthly passions and sins ; while the Irish , on the contrary , abandon themselves with all the impulsiveness of their nature to the feeling uppermost in their hearts , which is ever one of trust and ready reliance . But this statement , whatever may be its intrinsic value , itself needs a further explanation , which is only to be found in the greater attraction the supernatural always possessed for the Irish nature , when developed by grace . They accept fully and unsuspiciously what is heavenly , because they , more than others , feel that they are made for heaven , and the earth , consequently , has for them fewer attractions . They cling to a world far above this , and whatever belongs to it is dear to them . Hence , from the first preaching of Christianity among them , all earthly dignities have paled before the heavenly honors of the priesthood . They have been taught by St. Patrick that even the supreme @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a Christian bishop . The king , according to the apostle of Ireland - and his words have become a canon of the Irish Church - " has to judge no man unjustly ; to be the protector of the stranger , of the widow , and the orphan ; to repress theft , punish adultery , not to keep buffoons or unchaste persons ; not to exalt iniquity , but to sweep away the impious from the land , exterminate parricides and perjurers ; to defend the poor , to appoint just men over the affairs of the kingdom , to consult wise and temperate elders , to defend his native land against its enemies rightfully and stoutly ; in all things to put his trust in God . " All this evidently refers only to the exterior polity and administration . But " the bishop must be the hand which supports , the pilot who directs , the anchor that stays , the hammer that strikes , the sun that enlightens , the dew which moistens , the tablet to be written on , the book to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ terror that terrifies , the image of all that is good ; and let him be all for all . " Under this metaphorical style we here discern all the interior qualities of a spiritual Christian guide , teaching no less by authority than example . And , in the opinion of the converts of Patrick , were not the bishops , abbots , and priests , supported by an invisible power , stronger than all visible armies and guards of kings and princes ? " When the King of Cashel dared to contend against the holy abbot Mochoemoc , the first night after the dispute an old man took the king by the hand and led him to the northern city-walls ; there he opened the king 's eyes , and he beheld all the Irish saints of his own sex in white garments , with Patrick at their head ; they were there to protect Mochoemoc , and they filled the plain of Femyn . " The second night the old man came again and took the king to the southern wall , and there he saw the white-robed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : they too had come to defend Mochoemoc , and they filled the plain of Monael. " 1 ( 1 Many quotations in this chapter are from the " Legend . Hist. " by J. G. Shea . ) In the annals of no other Christian nation do we see so many examples of the power of the ministers of God to punish the wicked and help and succor the good , as we do in the hagiography of Ireland . Bad kings and chieftains reproved , cursed , punished ; the poor assisted , the oppressed delivered from their enemies , the sick restored to health , the dead even raised to life , are occurrences which the reader meets in almost every page of the lives of Irish saints . The Bollandists , accustomed as they were to meet with miracles of that kind , in the lives they published , found in Irish hagiography such a superabundance of them , that they refused to admit into their admirable compilation a great number already published or in manuscript . Nevertheless , the critics of our days , finding nothing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Colgan and other Irish antiquarians , express their surprise at their exclusion from that of Bollandus . No one at least will refuse to concede that , true or not , the facts related in those lives are always provocative of piety and redolent of faith . They certainly prove that at all periods of their existence the Irish have manifested a holy avidity for every thing supernatural and miraculous . Do they not know that our Lord has promised gifts of this description to his apostles and their successors ? And what the acts of the Apostles and many acts of martyrs positively state as having happened at the very beginning of the Church , is not a whit less extraordinary or physically impossible than any thing related in the Irish legends . Every Christian soul naturally abhors the unbelief of a Strauss or of a Renan as to the former ; is it not unnatural , then , for the same Christian soul to reject the latter because they fall under the easy sneer of " an Irish legend , " and are not contained in Holy Writ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has never wavered in such matters , and to-day they hold the same confidence in the priests ' power that meets us everywhere in the pages of Colgan and Ward . The reason is , that they admit Christianity without reserve ; and in its entirety it is supernatural . The criticisms of human reason on holy things hold in their eyes something of the sacrilegious and blasphemous ; such criticisms are for them open disrespect for divine things ; and , inasmuch as divine things are , in fact , more real than any phenomena under natural laws can be , skepticism in the former case is always more unreasonable than in the latter , supposing always that the narrative of the Divine favors reposes on sufficient authority . It is clear , therefore , that since the preaching of Christianity in Ireland , the world showed itself to the inhabitants of that country in a different light to that in which other men beheld it . For them , Nature is never separated from its Maker ; the hand of God is ever visible in all mundane affairs , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , first originated by the Baconian philosophy , which culminates in our days in the almost open negation of the spiritual , and thus materializes all things , is with justice viewed by the children of St. Patrick with a holy horror as leading to atheism , if it be not atheism itself . Without going to such extremes as the avowed infidels of modern times , all other Christian nations have seemed afraid to draw the logical conclusions whose premises were laid down by revelation . They have tried to follow a via media between truth and error ; they have admitted to a certain extent the separation of God and Nature , supposing the act of creation to have passed long ages ago , and not continuing through all time ; and thus they are bound by their system to hold that miracles are very extraordinary things , not to be believed prima facie , requiring infinite precautions before admitting the supposition of their having taken place ; all which indicates a real repugnance to their admission , and an innate fear of supposing God all-powerful , just , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the kindred errors ; and most Christian nations having , unfortunately , imbibed the principles of those errors in the philosophy of modern times , have almost lost all faith in the supernatural , and reduced revelation to a meagre and cold system , unrealized and not to be realized in human life . Not so the Irish Religion has entered deep into their life . It is a thing of every moment and of every place . Nature , God 's handiwork , instead of repelling them from God himself , draws them gently but forcibly toward Him , so that they feel themselves to be truly recipients of the blessings of God by being sharers in the blessings of Nature . And must God 's ministers , who have received such extraordinary powers over the supernatural world , be entirely deprived of power over the inferior part of creation ? Who can say so , and have true faith in the words of our Lord ? Who can say so , and truly call himself the follower and companion of the saints who have all believed so firmly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lesser part of his creation ? And this faith of the Irish in the power of the priesthood is not a thing of yesterday . It dates from their adoption of Christianity , to continue , we hope , forever . It ought , therefore , to be carefully distinguished from that love for every priest of God which beats so ardently in the hearts of them all , and which was so strengthened by a long community of persecution and suffering . In Ireland , as in every other Christian country , the priesthood has always sided with the people against their oppressors . During the early ages of Christianity in the island , the bishops , priests , and monks , were often called upon to exercise their authority and power against princes and chiefs of clans , accustomed to plunder , destroy , and kill , on the slightest pretext , and unused to control their fierce passions , inflamed by the rancor of feuds and the pride of strength and bravery . Some of those chieftains even opposed the progress of religion ; and it is said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ daughters , whom Patrick had baptized and consecrated to God , into the sea . For several centuries the heads of clans were generally so unruly and so hard to bring under the yoke of Christ , that the saints , in taking the side of the poor , had to stand as a wall of brass to stem the fury of the great and powerful . Bridget even , the modest and tender virgin , often spoke harshly of princes and rulers . " While she dwelt in the land of Bregia , King Connal 's daughter-in-law came to ask her prayers , for she was barren . Bridget refused to go to receive her ; but , leaving her without , she sent one of her maidens . When the nun returned : ' Mother , ' she asked , ' why would you not go and see the queen ? you pray for the wives of peasants . ' ' Because , ' said the servant of God , ' the poor and the peasants are almost all good and pious , while the sons of kings are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ small number of elect . But , after all , as she had recourse to us , go back and tell her that she shall have a son ; he will be wicked , and his race shall be accursed , yet he shall reign many years . ' " We might multiply examples such as this , wherein the saints and the ministers of God always side with the poor and the helpless ; and their great number in the lives of the old saints at once gives a reason for the deep love which the lower class of the Irish people felt for the holy men who were at once the servants of God and their helpers in every distress . The same thing is to be found in the whole subsequent history of the island , chiefly in the latter ages of persecution . But , as we said before , this affection and love must be distinguished from the feeling of reverence and awe resulting from the supernatural character of their office . The first feeling is merely a natural one , produced by deeds of benevolence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The second was the effect of religious faith in the sacredness of the priestly character , and remained in full force even when the poor themselves fell under reproof or threat in consequence of some misdeed or vicious habit . Hence the universal respect which the whole race entertains for their spiritual rulers , and their unutterable confidence in their high prerogatives . In prosperity as in adversity , in freedom or in subjection , they always preserve an instinctive faith in the unseen power which Christ conferred on those whom He chose to be his ministers . This feeling , which is undoubtedly found among good Christians in all places , is as certainly only found among particular individuals ; but among the Irish Celts it is the rule rather than the exception . Well have they merited , then , in this sense , from the days of St. Patrick down , the title of a " priest-ridden " people , which has been fixed on them as a term of reproach by those for whom all belief in the supernatural is belief in imposture . Another and a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Irish have at all times carried their devotion to the supernatural character of the Christian religion , is the extraordinary ardor with which , from the very beginning , they rushed into the high path of perfection , called the way of " evangelical counsels . " Nowhere else were such scenes ever witnessed in Christian history . For the great mass of people the common way of life is the practice of the commandments of God ; it is only the few who feel themselves called on to enter upon another path , and who experience interiorly the need of being " perfect . " In Ireland the case was altogether different from the outset . St. Patrick , notwithstanding his intimate knowledge of the leanings of the race , expresses in his " Confessio " the wonder and delight he experienced when he saw in what manner and in what numbers they begged to be consecrated to God the very first day after their baptism . Yet were they conscious that this very eagerness would excite the greater opposition on the part of their pagan relatives and friends . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the story of Ethne and Felimia . The whole nation , in fact , appeared suddenly transported with a holy impetuosity , and lifted at once to the height of Christian life . Monasteries and nunneries could not be constructed fast enough , although they contented themselves with the lightest fabrics  --  wattles being the ordinary materials for walls , and slender laths for roofs . Nor was this an ephemeral ardor , like a fire of stubble or straw , flashing into a momentary blaze , to relapse into deeper gloom . It lasted for several centuries ; it was still in full flame at the time of Columba , more than two hundred years after Patrick ; it grew into a vast conflagration in the seventh and eighth centuries , when multitudes rushed forth from that burning island of the blest to spread the sacred fire through Europe . How the nation continued to multiply , when so many devoted themselves to a holy celibacy , is only to be explained by the large number of children with which God blessed those who pursued an ordinary life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chronicles of the time , must have been in a minority . Of the first monasteries and convents erected not a single vestige now remains , because of the perishable materials of which they were constructed ; yet each of them contained hundreds , nay thousands , of monks or nuns . But , even in our days , we are furnished with an ocular demonstration of what men could scarcely bring themselves to believe , or at least would term an exaggeration , did not standing proof remain . God inspired his children with the thought of erecting more substantial structures , of building walls of stone and roofing them in with tiles and metal ; and the island was literally covered , not with Gothic castles or luxurious palaces and sumptuous edifices , but with large and commodious buildings and churches , wherein the religious life of the inmates might be carried on with greater comfort and seclusion from the world . At the time of the Reformation all those asylums of perfection and asceticism were of course profaned , converted to vile or slavish uses , many altogether @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ allowed to decay gradually and become heaps of ruins . And what happened when the English Government , unable any longer to resist public opinion , was compelled to consent that a survey be made of the poor and comparatively few remains still in existence , in order to manifest a show of interest for the past history of the island ; when commissioners were appointed to publish lists and diagrams of the former dwellings of the " saints , " which the " zeal " of the " reformers " had battered down without mercy ? To the astonishment of all , it was proved by the ruins still in existence that the greater portion of the island had been once occupied by monasteries and convents of every description . And Prof. O'Curry has stated his conviction , based on local traditions and geographical and topographical names , that a great number of these can be traced back to Patrick and his first companions . It is clear enough , then , that , from the beginning , the Irish were not only " priest-ridden , " but also very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not form a complete idea of that attachment were we to limit ourselves to an enumeration of the buildings actually erected , supposing such an enumeration possible at this time . For we know , by many facts related in Irish hagiology , that a great number of those who devoted themselves to a life of penance and austerity , did not dwell even in the humble structures of the first monks , but , deeming themselves unworthy of the society of their brethren , or condemned by a severe but just " friend of their soul , " as the confessor was then called , hid themselves in mountain-caves , in the recesses of woods or forests , or banished themselves to crags ever beaten by the waves of the sea . Yes , there was a time when those dreadful solitudes of the Hebrides , which frighten the modern tourist in his summer explorations , teemed with Christian life , and every rock , cave , and sand-bar had its inhabitant , and that inhabitant an Irish monk . They sometimes spent seven years on a desert islet doing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lifetime on a rock in the midst of the ocean , alone with God , and enjoying no communion but that of their conscience . Who knows how many thousands of men have led such a life , shocking , indeed , to the feelings of worldlings , but in reality devoted to the contemplation of what is above Nature  --  a life , consequently , exalted and holy ? Passing from the solitudes to the numerous hives where the bees of primitive Christianity in Ireland were busy at work constructing their combs and secreting their honey , what do we see ? People generally imagine that all monastic establishments have been alike ; that those of mediaeval times were simply the reproduction of earlier ones . An abbot , the three vows , austerity , psalmody , study  --  such are the general features common to all ; but those of Ireland had peculiarities which are worthy of examination . We shall find in them a stronger expression of the supernatural , perhaps ; certainly a more heavenly cast , a greater forgetfulness of the world , its manners and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all he knew of this holy life in the establishment of Lerins , wherein the West reflected more truly than it ever did subsequently the Oriental light of the great founders of monasticism in Palestine and Egypt . The first thing to be remarked is the want , to a great extent , of a strict system . The Danes , when Christianized , and the Anglo-Normans , introduced this afterwards ; but the genius of the Irish race is altogether opposed to it , and the Scandinavian races in following ages could hardly ever bring them under the cold uniformity of an iron rule . Did St. Patrick establish a rule in the monasteries which he founded ? Did St. Columba two centuries later ? Did any of the great masters of spiritual life who are known to have exercised an influence on the world of Irish convents ? Not only has nothing of the kind been transmitted to us , but no mention of it is made in the lives of holy abbots which we possess.1 ( 1 The " Irish Penitentials , " quoted at length in Rev. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not monastic rules , although many canons have reference to monks . ) St. Columbanus 's rule is the only one which has come down to us ; but the monasteries founded by him were all situated in Burgundy , Switzerland , Germany , and Italy  --  that is to say , out of Ireland , out of the island of saints . He was compelled to furnish his monasteries with a written rule , because they were surrounded by barbarous peoples , some of whom his establishments often received as monks , and to whom the holiness of Ireland was unfamiliar or utterly unknown . But why should the people of God , living in his devoted island , redeemed as soon as born by the waters of baptism , be shackled by enactments which might serve as an obstacle to the action of the Holy Ghost on their free souls ? According to the common opinion , each founder of a monastery had his own rule , which he himself was the first to follow in all its rigor ; if disciples came , they were to observe it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it , they found themselves unable to keep it to the letter , the abbot was indulgent , and did not impose on them a burden which they could no longer bear , after having first proved their willingness to practise it . Thus , it is reported that St. Mochta was the only one who practised his own rule exactly , his monks imitating him as well as they could . St. Fintan , who was inclined to be severe , received this warning in a vision : " Fight unto the end thyself ; but beware of being a cause of scandal to others , by requiring all to fight as thou doest , for one clay is weaker than another . " Thus , every founder , every abbot even , left to the guidance of the Holy Spirit , practised austerities which in our days of self-indulgence seem absolutely incredible , and showed themselves severe to those under their authority . But this severity was tempered by such zeal for the good of souls , and consequently by such an unmistakable charity , that the penitent monk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ joy . This , in after-ages , became a characteristic feature of Irish monasticism . The life of Columba is full of examples of this holy severity . In St. Patrick 's life we read that Colman died of thirst rather than quench it before the time appointed by his master . How many facts of a similar nature might be mentioned ! Enough to say that , after so many ages , in which , thanks to barbarous persecutions , all ecclesiastical and monastic traditions were lost to Ireland , through the sheer impossibility of following them up , the Irish still show a marked predilection for the holy austerity of penance , though the rest of the Christian world seems to have almost totally forgotten it . But if the Irish convents lacked system , there was at the same time in them an exuberance of feeling , an enthusiastic impulse , which is to be found nowhere else to the same extent , and which we call their second peculiar feature after they received Christianity . This is beautifully expressed in a hymn of the office of St. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clerks applaud and are in joy ; the sun of justice , which had been hidden in the clouds , shines forth again . " As soon as this primitive enthusiasm seemed to slacken in the least , reformers appeared to enkindle it again . Such was Bridget , such was Gildas , such were the disciples of St. David of Menevia in Wales , such was any one whom the Spirit of God inspired with love for Ireland . Thus the scenes enacted in the time of Patrick were again and again repeated . And when a monastery was built , it was not properly a monastery , but a city rather ; for the whole country round joined in the goodly work . As some one has said , " it looked as if Ireland was going to cease to be a nation , and become a church . " With regard to the question of ground and the appropriation of landed property , what matters it who is the owner ? If it be clan territory , there is the clan with nothing but welcome , applause , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not consulted even ; how could he think of opposing the work of God ? Thus , we never read in Irish history - in the earlier stages at least - of those long charters granted in other lands by kings , dukes , and counts , and preserved with such care in the archives of the monastery . It seems that the Danes , after they became Christians , were the first to introduce the custom ; after them , the Anglo-Normans , in the true spirit of their race , made a flourishing business of it . The Irish themselves never thought of such at first . There was no fear of any one ever claiming the ground on which God 's house stood . The buildings were there : the ground needed to support them : what Irishman could think of driving away the holy inmates and pulling the walls about their ears ? The whole surrounding population is busy erecting them . Long rows of wattles and tessel-work are set in right order ; over them a rough roof of boards ; within small cells begin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them . Symmetry or no symmetery , the position of the ground decides the question ; for there is no need of the skill of a surveyor to establish the grade . Does not the rain run its own way , once it begins ? How far and how wide will those long rows reach ? They seem the streets of a city ; and in truth they are . The place is to receive two , three thousand monks , over and above the students committed to their care . And , in addition to the cells to dwell in , there are the halls wherein to teach ; the museums and repositories of manuscripts , of sacred objects ; the rooms to write in , translate , compose ; the sheds to hold provisions , to prepare and cook them , ready for the meal . For the most important edifice  --  the temple of God  --  alone stones are cut , shaped , and fitted each to each with care and precision . A holy simplicity surrounds the art ; yet are there not wanting carven crosses and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mysteries of religion will be performed . Should you ask , " Why so small ? " the answer is ready . That large space empty around holds room enough for the worshippers , whose numbers could be accommodated in no edifice . The minds of Irish architects had not yet expanded to the conception of a St. Peter 's . Inside is room enough for the ministers of religion ; without , at the tinkling of the bell , in the round tower adjoining , the faithful will join in the services . Nor was it only in the erection of those edifices that a cheerful impulse , which overlooked or overcame all difficulties , was displayed . The monastic life was not all the time a life of penance and gloomy austerity , but of active work also and overflowing feeling , of true poetry and enthusiastic exultation . We read in the fragments we still possess how , on the arid rock of Iona , Columba remembered his former residence at Derry , with its woods of oaks and the pure waters of its loughs . In all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attachment they always preserved for their country , relatives , and friends ; what they did and were ready to do for them . And though all this was at bottom but a natural feeling , the extent to which it was carried will make us better acquainted with the Irish character , and explain more clearly that extraordinary expansion of soul which , in the domains of the supernatural , surpassed every thing witnessed elsewhere . " In a monastery two brothers had lived from childhood . The elder died , and while he was dying the other was laboring in the forest . When he came back , he saw the brethren opening a grave in the cemetery , and thus he learned that his brother was dead . He hastened to the spot where the Abbot Fintan , with some of his monks , were chanting psalms around the corpse , and asked him the favor of dying with his brother , and entering with him into the heavenly kingdom . ' Thy brother is already in heaven , ' replied Fintan , ' and you can not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ knelt in prayer , the angels who had received the holy soul restored it , and the dead man , rising in his bier , called his brother : ' Come , ' said he , ' but come quickly ; the angels await us . ' At the same time he made room beside him , and both , lying down , slept together in death , and ascended together to the kingdom of God . " This anecdote may tend better than any thing else to show us how Nature and grace were united in the Irish soul , to warm it , purify it , exalt it above ordinary feelings and earthly passions , and keep it constantly in a state of energy and vitality unknown to other peoples . For , in what page of the ecclesiastical history of other nations do we read of things such as these ? With regard to their country , also , grace came to the aid of Nature ; the supernatural was , therefore , seldom absent from the natural in their minds , and something of this double union @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has , no doubt , contributed to render their nationality imperishable in spite of persecution . How ardent and pure in the heart of Columba was the love of Ireland , from which he was a voluntary exile ! Patrick , also , though not native born , yielded to none in that sacred feeling ; one of the three things he sought of God on dying was , that Erin should not " remain forever under a foreign yoke : " Kieran offered the same prayer , and their reason for thus praying was that she was the " island of saints , " destined to help out the salvation of many . Religion has been invariably connected with that acute sentiment ever present in the minds of Irishmen for their country ; and it is , doubtless , that holy and supernatural feeling which has preserved a country which enemies strove so strenuously to wrest from them . But it was not love of country alone , of relatives and friends , which enkindled in their hearts a spirit of enthusiasm ; their whole monastic life was one of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than human . We see them laboring in and around their monastic hive . How they pray and chant the divine office ; how they study and expound the holy doctrine to their pupils ; how they are ever travelling , walking in procession by hundreds and by thousands through the island , the interior spirit not allowing them to stand still . There are so many pilgrimages to perform , so many shrines to venerate , so many works of brotherly love to undertake . Other monks in other countries , indeed , did the same , but seldom with such universal ardor . The whole island , as we said , is one church . On all sides you may meet bishops , and priests , and monks , bearing revered relics , or proceeding to found a new convent , plant another sacred edifice , or establish a house for the needy . The people on the way fall in and follow their footsteps , sharers of the burning enthusiasm . Many-how many ! - were thus attracted to this mode of life , wherein there was scarce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ! Thus the island was from the beginning a holy island . But zeal for God in their own country alone not being enough for their ardor , those men of God were early moved by the impulse of going abroad to spread the faith . Volumes might be written of their apostleship among barbarous tribes ; we have room only for a few words . They first went to the islands north of them , to the Hebrides , the Faroe Isles , and even Iceland , which they colonized before the Norwegian pirates landed there . Then they evangelized Scotland and the north of England ; and , starting from Lindisfarne , they completed the work of the conversion of the Anglo-Saxons , which was begun by St. Augustin and his monks in the south . Finally , the whole continent of Western Europe offered itself to their zeal , and at once they were ready to enter fully and unreservedly into the current of new ideas and energies which at that time began to renew the face of that portion of the world overspread by barbarians from Germany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on , under the Carlovingian dynasty , they became celebrated in the east of France , on the banks of the Rhine , even in the north through Germany , in the heart of Switzerland , and the north of Italy . This is not the place to attempt even a sketch of their missionary labors , now known to all the students of the history of those times . But we may here mention that at that time the Irish monarchs and rulers became acquainted with continental dynasties and affairs through the necessary intercourse held by the Irish bishops and monks with Rome , the centre of Catholicity . Thus we see that Malachi II corresponded with Charles the Bald , with a view of making a pilgrimage to Rome . We learn from the yellow-book of Lecain that Conall , son of Coelmuine , brought from Rome the law of Sunday , such as was afterward practised in Ireland . Over and above the Irish missionaries who kept up a constant correspondence from the Continent of Europe with their native land , it is known that many in those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , St. Degan , St. Kilian , the apostle of Franconia ; St. Sedulius the younger , who assisted at a Roman council in 721 , and was sent by the Pope on a mission to Spain ; St. Donatus , afterward Bishop of Fiesole , and his disciple , Andrew . St. Cathald went from Rome to Jerusalem , and on his return was made Bishop of Tarento . Donough , son of Brian Boru , went to Rome in 1063 , carrying , it is said , the crown of his father , and there died . It has been calculated that the ancient Irish monks held from the sixth to the ninth century thirteen monasteries in Scotland , seven in France , twelve in Armoric Gaul , seven in Lotharingia , eleven in Burgundy , nine in Belgium , ten in Alsatia , sixteen in Bavaria , fifteen in Rhaetia , Helvetia , and Suevia , besides several in Thuringia and on the left bank of the Rhine . Ireland was then not only included in , but at the head of , the European movement ; and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yet has scarcely been studied . The religious zeal which was then so manifest in the island itself burned likewise among many Continental nations , and lasted from the introduction of Christianity to the Danish invasion . What contributed chiefly to make that ardor lasting was , that every thing connected with religion made a part even of their exterior life . Grace had taken entire possession of the national soul . This world was looked upon as a shadow , beautiful only in reflecting something of the beauty of heaven . Hence were the Irish " the saints . " So were they titled by all , and they accepted the title with a genuine and holy simplicity which betokened a truer modesty than the pretended denegation which we might expect . Thus they seemed above temptation . The virgins consecrated to God were as numerous at least as the monks . These had also their processions and pilgrimages ; they went forth from houses over-full to found others , not knowing or calculating beforehand the spot where they might rest and " expect resurrection . " Such was their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and if there was no spot in the neighborhood suitable for the sisters , the monks abandoned to them their abode , their buildings and cultivated fields where the crops were growing , taking with them naught save the sacred vessels and the books they might need in the new establishment they went forth to found elsewhere . Who could imagine , then , that even a thought could enter their minds beyond those of charity and kindness ? Were they not dead utterly to worldly passions , and living only to God ? It would have been a sacrilege to have profaned the holy island , not only with an unlawful act but even with a worldly imagination . Had not many holy men and women seen angels constantly coming down from heaven , and the souls of the just at their departure going straight from Ireland to heaven ? Both in perpetual communication ! Had the eyes of all been as pure as those of the best among them , the truth would have been unveiled to all alike , and the " isle of saints " would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bright country where redemption was a great fact ; where the souls of the great majority were truly and actually redeemed in the full sense of the word ; where people might enjoy a foretaste of heaven-the very space above their heads being to them at all times a road connecting the heavenly mansions with this sublunary world . True is it that there were ever in the island a number of great sinners who desecrated the holy spot they dwelt on by their deeds of blood . The Saviour predicted that there should be " tares among the wheat " everywhere until the day of judgment . It was among the chieftains principally , almost entirely , that sin prevailed . The clan-system , unfortunately , favored deadly feuds , which often drenched all parts of the island in blood . Family quarrels , being in themselves unnatural , led to the most atrocious crimes . The old Greek drama furnishes frightful examples of it , and similar passions sometimes filled the breasts of those leaders of Irish clans . Few of them died in their beds . When carried @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ respect . It would , however , be an exaggeration to suppose on this account a distinct and complete antagonism to have existed between the clan and the Church , and to class all the princes on the side of evil as opposed to the " saints , " whom we have contemplated leading a celestial life . We know from St. Aengus that one of the glories of Ireland is that many of her saints were of princely families , whereas among other nations generally the Gospel was first accepted by the poor and lowly , and found its enemies among the higher and educated classes . But in Ireland the great , side by side with the least of their clansmen , bowed to the yoke of Christ , and the bards and learned men became monks and bishops from the very first preaching of the Word . The fact is , a great number of kings and chieftains made their station doubly renowned by their virtues , and find place in the chronicle of Irish saints . Who can read , for instance , the story of King @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is reported that as St. Caimine and St. Cumain Fota were one day conversing on spiritual things with that holy king of Connaught , Caimine said to Guaire , " O king , could this church be filled on a sudden with whatever thou shouldst wish , what would thy desire be ? " " I should wish , " replied the king , " to have all the treasures that the church could hold , to devote them to the salvation of souls , the erection of churches , and the wants of Christ 's poor . " " And what wouldst thou ask ? " said the king to Fota . " I would , " he replied , " have as many holy books as the church could contain , to give all who seek divine wisdom , to spread among the people the saving doctrine of Christ , and rescue souls from the bondage of Satan . " Both then turned to Caimine . " For my part , " said he , " were this church filled with men afflicted with every form of suffering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to assemble in my wretched body all their evils , all their pains , and give me strength to support them patiently , for the love of the Saviour of the world . " 1 ( 1 This passage is given in Latin by Colgan ( Acts SS . ) . In the original Irish , translated and published by Dr. Todd  --  Liber Hymn  --  there are more details . ) Thus the most sublime and supernatural spirit of Christianity became natural to the Irish mind in the great as well as in the lowly , in the rich as well as in the poor . Women rivalled men in that respect . " Daria was blind from birth . Once , whilst conversing with Bridget , she said : ' Bless my eyes that I may see the world , and gratify my longing . ' The night was dark ; it grew light for her , and the world appeared to her gaze . But when she had beheld it , she turned again to Bridget . ' Now close my eyes , ' said she , ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the more present he is before God . ' " Even though one may express doubt as to the reality of this miracle , one thing , at least , is beyond doubt : that the spirit of the words of Daria was congenial to the Irish mind at the time , and that none but one who had first reached the highest point of supernatural life could conceive or give utterance to such a sentiment . That more than human life and spirit elevated , ennobled , and , as it were , divinized , even the ordinary human and natural feelings , which not only ceased to become dangerous , but became , doubtless , highly pleasing to God and meritorious in his sight . An example may better explain our meaning : " Ninnid was a young scholar , not over-reverent , whom the influence of Bridget one day suddenly overcame , so that he afterward appeared quite a different being . Bridget announced to him that from his hand she should , for the last time , receive the body and blood of our Lord . Ninnid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and holy an office . He enclosed it in an iron case , and wishing at the same time to postpone , as far as lay in his power , the moment that was to take Bridget from the world , he set out for Brittany , throwing the key of the box into the sea . But the designs of God are immutable . When Bridget 's hour had come , Ninnid was driven by a storm on the Irish coast , and the key was miraculously given up by the deep . " Where , except in Ireland , could such friendship continue for long years , without giving cause not only for the least scandal , but even for the remotest danger ? In that island the natural feelings of the human heart were wholly absorbed by heavenly emotions , in which nothing earthly could be found ? Hence the celebrated division of the " three orders of the Irish saints , " the first being so far above temptation that no regulation was imposed on the Cenobites with respect to their intercourse with women . " Women @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so to speak , to the sanctuary ; it was shared with them , occupied in common . Double , or even mixed monasteries , so near to each other as to form but one , brought the two sexes together for mutual edification ; men became instructors of women ; women of men . " Nothing of the kind was ever witnessed elsewhere ; nothing of the kind was to be seen ever after . Robert of Arbrissel established something similar in the order , of Fontevrault in France ; but there it was a strange and very uncommon exception ; in Ireland for two centuries it was the rule . This alone would show how completely the Christian spirit had taken possession of the whole race from the first . It is this which gives to Irish hagiology a peculiar character , making it appear strange even to the best men of other nations . The elevation of human feeling to such a height of perfection is so unusual that men can not fail to be surprised wherever they may meet it . Yet far from appearing strange , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ natural result of the working of the Christian religion , if the spirit brought on earth by our Lord had been more thoroughly diffused among men , if all had been penetrated by it to the same degree , if all had equally understood the meaning of the Gospel preached to them . But , unfortunately , so many and so great were the obstacles opposed everywhere to the working of the Spirit of God in the souls of men , that comparatively few were capable of being altogether transformed into beings of another nature . The great mass lagged far behind in the race of perfection . They were admitted to the fold of Christ , and lived generally at least in the practice of the commandments ; but the object proposed to himself by the Saviour of mankind was imperfectly carried out on earth . The life of the world was far from being impregnated by the spirit which he brought from heaven . In the " island of saints " we certainly see a great number open out at once to the fulness of that divine influence . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has ever since been the characteristic of the people . " Centuries have perpetuated the alliance of Catholicity and Ireland . Revolutions have failed to shake it ; persecution has not broken it ; it has gained strength in blood and tears , and we may believe , after thirteen centuries of trial , that the Roman faith will disappear from Ireland only with the name of Patrick and the last Irishman . " NOTE. - It is known that F. Colgan , a Franciscan , undertook to publish the " Acta Sanctorum Hiberniae . " He edited only two volumes : the first under the title of " Trias thaumaturga " containing the various lives of St. Patrick , St. Columba , and St. Bridget : - the second under the general title of " Acta SS. " - Barnwall , an Irishman born and educated in France , published the " Histoire Legendaire d'Irlande , " in which he collected , without much order , a number of passages of Colgan 's " Acta , " and Mr. J. G. Shea translated and published it . We have taken from this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Franciscan being not accessible to us . Dr. Todd , from Irish MSS. , has given a few pages showing the accuracy of Colgan , although the good father did not scruple occasionally to condense and abridge , unless the MSS. he used differed from those of Dr. Todd . The whole is a rich mine of interesting anecdotes , and Montalembert has shown what a skilful writer can find in those pages forgotten since the sixteenth century . Mr. Froude himself has acknowledged that the eighth was the golden age of Ireland . CHAPTER V. THE CHRISTIAN IRISH AND THE PAGAN DANES . For several centuries the Irish continued in the happy state described in the last chapter . While the whole European Continent was convulsed by the irruptions of the Germanic tribes , and of the Huns , more savage still , the island was at peace , opened her schools to the youth of all countries  --  to Anglo-Saxons chiefly  --  and spread her name abroad as the happy and holy isle , the dwelling of the saints , the land of prodigies , the most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her ; the various Teutonic nations knew less of the sea than the Celts themselves , and no vessel neared the Irish coast save the peaceful curraghs which carried her monks and missionaries abroad , or her own sons in quest of food and adventure . Providence would seem to have imposed upon the nation the lofty mission of healing the wounds of other nations as they lay helpless in the throes of death , of keeping the doctrines of the Gospel alive in Europe , after those terrible invasions , and of leading into the fold of Christ many a shepherdless flock . The peaceful messengers who went forth from Ireland became as celebrated as her home schools and monasteries ; and well had it been for the Irish could such a national life as this have continued . But God , who wished to prepare them for still greater things in future ages , who proves by suffering all whom he wishes to use as his best instruments , allowed the fury of the storm to burst suddenly upon them . It was but the beginning of their woes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , where they were to be crucified with him , to be crucified wellnigh to the death before their final and almost miraculous resurrection . The Danes were to be the first torturers of that happy and holy people ; the hardy rovers of the northern seas were coming to inaugurate a long era of woe . The Scandinavian irruption which desolated Europe just as she was beginning to recover from the effects of the first great Germanic wave , may be said to have lasted from the eighth to the twelfth century . Down from the North Sea came the shock ; Ireland was consequently one of the first to feel it , and we shall see how she alone withstood and finally overcame it . The better to understand the fierceness of the attack , let us first consider its origin : The Baltic Sea and the various gulfs connected with it penetrate deeply the northern portion of the Continent of Europe . Its indentations form two peninsulas : a large one , known under the name of Norway and Sweden , and a lesser one on the southwest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Romans as Scania ; the second was called by them the Cimbric Chersonesus . From Scania is derived the name Scandinavians , afterward given to the inhabitants of the whole country . Besides these two peninsulas , there are several islands scattered through the surrounding sea . The frozen and barren land which this people inhabited obliged them from time immemorial to depend on the ocean for their sustenance : first , by fishing ; later on , by piracy . They soon became expert navigators , though their ships were merely small boats made of a few pieces of timber joined together , and covered with the hide of the walrus and the seal . It seems , from the Irish annals , that they belonged to two distinct races of men : the Norwegians , fair-haired and of large stature ; the Danes dark , and of smaller size . Hence the Irish distinguished the first , whom they called Finn Galls , from the second , whom they named Dubh Galls . By no other European nation was this distinction drawn , the Irish being more exact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of modern writers that they belonged to the Teutonic family . The Goths , a Teutonic tribe , dwelt for a long period on the larger peninsula . But whether the Goths were of the same race as the Norwegians or Danes is a question . Certain it is that the various German nations which first overwhelmed the Roman Empire bore many characteristics different from those of the Danes and Norwegians , though the language of all indicated , to a certain extent , a common origin . The Swedes , the inhabitants of the eastern coast of Scania , do not appear to have taken an important part in the Scandinavian invasions ; nor , indeed , have they ever been so fond of maritime enterprises as the two other nations . Moreover , they were at that time in bloody conflict with the Goths , and too busy at home to think of foreign conquest . For a long time the Scandinavian pirates seem to have confined themselves to scouring their own seas , and plundering the coasts as far as the gulfs of Finland and Bothnia . At @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ocean , attacked the nations of Western and Southern Europe , and in the west colonized the frozen shores of the Shetland and Faroe Islands , and soon after Iceland and Greenland . For several centuries the harbors of Denmark and Norway became the storehouses of all the riches of Europe , and a large trade was carried on between those northern peninsulas and the various islands of the Northern and Arctic Seas , even with the coast of America , of which Greenland seems to form a part . Those stern and mountainous countries and the restless ocean which divides them were for the Scandinavian pirates what the Mediterranean and the coasts of Spain and Africa had long before been for the Phoenicians and Carthaginians . These peoples were clearly destined to introduce among modern nations the spirit of commerce and enterprise . But here it is well to consider their religious and social state from which nations chiefly derive their noble or ignoble qualities . We shall find both made up of the rankest idolatry , of cruel manners and revolting customs . Their system of worship , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in character and better known to us than that of the Celts . If we open the books which were written in Europe at the time of the irruption of these Northmen , and the poems of those savage tribes preserved to our own days , and comprised under the name of Edda , besides the numerous sagas , or songs and ballads , which we still possess , we find mention of three superior gods and a number of inferior deities , which gave a peculiar character to this Northern worship . They were Thor , the god of the elements , of thunder chiefly ; Wodan or Odin , the god of war ; and Frigga , the goddess of lust ; the long list of others it is unnecessary to give . Their religion , therefore , consisted mainly : 1 . In battling with the elements , particularly on the sea , under the protection of Thor ; 2 . In slaying their enemies , or being themselves slain , as Odin willed  --  the giving or receiving death being apparently the great object of existence ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to all the propensities of corrupt nature , which they took to be the express will of Frigga manifested in their unbridled passions . Such was Scandinavian mythology in its reality . Modern investigators , principally in Germany and France , find in the Edda a complete system of cosmogony and of a religion almost inspired , so beautiful do they make it . At least they have made it appear as profound a philosophy as that of old Hindostan and far-off Thibet . By grouping around those three great divinities , which are supposed to be emblematical of the superior natural forces , their numerous progeny , that of Odin especially , together with an incredible number of malicious giants and good-natured ases  --  a kind of fairy  --  any skilful theorist , gifted with the requisite imagination , may extract from the whole an almost perfect system of cosmogony and ethics . Then the disgusting legends of the Edda and the sagas are straightway transformed into interesting myths , offsprings of poetry and imagination , and conveying to the mind a philosophy only less than sublime , derived , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is , as we said , in Germany and France chiefly that these discoveries have been made . The English , a more sober people , although of Scandinavian blood , do not set so high a value on what is , in the literal sense , so low . Pity that such pleasing speculations should be mere theoretical bubbles , unable to retain their lightness and their vivid colors in the rude atmosphere of the arctic regions , bursting at the first breath of the north wind ! How could sensible men , under such a complicated system of religion and physics , account for the uncouth pirates of the Baltic ? As useless is it to say that they brought it from the place of their origin  --  Persia , as these theorists affirm . To a man uninfluenced by a preconceived or pet system , it is evident at first sight that no mythology of the East or of the South has ever given rise to that of Scandinavia . There is not the slightest resemblance between it and any other . It must have originated with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only the bloody dreams of their fancy , when , during their dreary winter evenings , they had nothing to do but relate to each other what came uppermost in their gross minds . Saxo Grammaticus , certainly a competent authority , and Snorry Sturleson , the first to translate the Edda into Latin , who is still considered one of the greatest antiquarians of the nation  --  both of whom lived in the times we speak of , when this religious system still flourished or was fresh in the minds of all  --  solved the question ages ago , and demonstrated beforehand the falsehood of those future theories by stating with old-time simplicity that the abominable stories of the Edda and the sagas were founded on real facts in the previous history of those nations , and were consequently never intended by the writers as imaginative myths , representing , under a figurative and repulsive exterior , some semblance of a spiritual and refined doctrine . We must look to our own more enlightened times to find ingenious interpreters of rude old songs first flung to the breeze nine hundred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in boisterous and drunken chorus during the ninth and tenth centuries by ferocious , but to modern eyes romantic , pirates reeking with the gore of their enemies . Because it has pleased some modern pantheist to concoct systems of religion in his cabinet , does it become at once clear that the mythic explanation of those songs is the only one to be admitted , and that the odious facts which those legends express ought to be discarded altogether ? At least we hope that , when philosophers come to be the real rulers of the world , they will not give to their subtle and abstract ideas of religion the same pleasant turn and the same concrete expression in every-day life that the worshippers of Odin , Thor , and Frigga , found it agreeable to give when they were masters of the continent and rulers of the seas . No ! The only true meaning of this Northern worship is conveyed in the simple words of Adam of Bremen , when relating what still existed in his own time . ( Descript. insularum Aquil. , lib. iv . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thus : " This is their sacrifice ; of each and all animals they offer nine heads of the male gender , by whose blood it is their custom to appease the gods . The dead bodies of the victims are suspended in a grove which surrounds the temple . The place is in their eyes invested with such a sacred character that the trees are believed to be divine on account of the blood and gore with which they are besmeared . With the animals , dogs , horses , etc. , they suspend likewise men ; and a Christian of that country told me that he had himself seen them with his own eyes mixed up together in the grove . But the senseless rites which accompany the sacrifice and the sprinkling of blood are so many , and of so gross and immoral nature , that it is better not to speak of them . " We have here the naked truth , and no meaning whatever could be attached to such ceremonies other than that of the rankest idolatry . To complete the picture , it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , were frightful idols , as represented in the Upsala temple , and the small statues carried by the Scandinavian sailors on their expeditions and set in the place of honor on board their ships , were but diminutive copies of the hideous originals . It is known , moreover , that Odin had existed as a leader of some of their migrations , so that their idolatry resolved itself into hero-worship . Having spoken of their gods , we have only a word to add on their belief in a future state , for every one is acquainted with their brutal and shocking Walhalla . Yet , such as it was , admittance to its halls could only be aspired to by the warriors and heroes , the great among them ; the common herd was not deemed worthy of immortality . Thus aristocratic pride showed itself at the very bottom of their religion . Of their social state , their government , we know little . They lived under a kind of rude monarchy , subject often to election , when they chose the most savage and the bravest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to do with their system , so different from that of the Celts . The sons of a chieftain could never form a sept , but at his death the eldest replaced him ; the younger brothers , deprived of their titles and goods , were forced to separate and acquire a title to rank and honor by piracy ; and that right of primogeniture , which was the primary cause of their sea invasions , stamped the feudal system with one of its chief characteristics , a system which probably originated with them . Some , however , entertain a contrary opinion , and suppose that at the death of the father his children shared his inheritance equally . Of their moral habits we may best judge by their religion . All we know of their history seems to prove that with them might was right , and outlawry the only penalty of their laws . A man guilty of murder was compelled to quit the country , unless his superior daring and the number of his friends and followers enabled him , by more atrocious and wholesale murders , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supreme power . Iceland was colonized by outlaws from Norway ; and the frequent changes of dynasty in pagan times prove that among them , as among barbarous tribes generally , brute force was the chief source of law and authority . That outlawry was not esteemed a stain on the character is sufficiently demonstrated by the fact that the mere accident of birth made outlaws of all the children of chieftains with the exception of the eldest born ; the necessity for the younger sons abandoning their home and native country , and roaming the ocean in search of plunder , being exactly equivalent , according to their opinion and customs , to criminal outlawry of whatever character . This , at least , many authors assert without hesitation . Their domestic habits were fit consequences of such a state of society . There could exist no real tie of kindred , no filial or brotherly affection among men living under such a social system . The gratification of brutal passions and the most utter selfishness constituted the rule for all ; and even the fear of an inexorable judge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might have been the case among other pagan nations , since the hope of reaching their Walhalla depended for its fulfilment on murder or suicide . With their system of warfare we are better acquainted than with any thing else belonging to them , as the main burden of their songs was the recital of their barbarous expeditions . It is , indeed , difficult for a modern reader to wade through the whole of their Edda poems , or even their long sagas , so full is their literature of unimaginable cruelties . Yet a general view of it is necessary in order to understand the horror spread throughout Europe by their inhuman warfare . As soon as the warm breeze of an early spring thaws the ice on his rivers and lakes , the Scandinavian Viking unfurls his sail , fills his rude boat with provisions , and trusts himself to the mercy of the waves . Should he be alone , and not powerful enough to have a fleet at his command , he looks out for a single boat of his own nation  --  there being no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the two crews attack each other at sight ; the sea reddens with blood ; the savage bravery is equal on both sides ; accident alone can decide the contest . One of the crews conquers by the death of all its opponents ; the plunder is transferred to the victorious boat ; the cup of strong drink passes round , and victory is crowned by drunkenness . But if the two chieftains have contended from morning till night with equal valor and success , then , filled with admiration for each other , they become friends , unite their forces , and , falling on the first spot where they can land , they pillage , slay , outrage women , and give full sway to their unbridled passions . The more ferocious they are the braver they esteem themselves . It is a positive fact , as we may gather from all their poems and songs , that the Scandinavians alone , probably , of all pagan nations , have had no measure of bravery and military glory beyond the infliction of the most exquisite torture and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the motive power of all their expeditions , was to them less attractive than blood ; blood , therefore , is the chief burden of their poetry , if poetry it can be called . It would seem as though they were destined by Nature to shed human blood in torrents  --  the noblest occupation , according to their ideas , in which a brave man could be engaged . The figures of their rude literature consist for the most part of monstrous warriors and gods , each possessed of many arms to kill a greater number of enemies , or of giant stature to overcome all obstacles , or of enchanted swords which shore steel as easily as linen , and clave the body of an adversary as it would the air . Then , heated with blood , the Northman is also influenced with lust , for he worships Frigga as well as Odin . But this is not the place to give even an idea of manners too revolting to be presented to the imagination of the reader . Cantu 's Universal History will furnish all the authorities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the same kind are derived . We do not propose describing here the horrors of the devastations committed by the Anglo-Saxons and Danes in England , by the Normans in France , Spain , and Italy . All these nations , even the first , were Scandinavians , and naturally fall under our review . The story is already known to those who are acquainted with the history of mediaeval Europe . The only thing which we do not wish to omit is the invariable system of warfare adopted by this people when acting on a large scale . Arrived on the coast they had determined to ravage , they soon found that in stormy weather they were in a more dangerous position than at sea . Hence they looked for a deep bay , or , better still , the mouth of a large river , and once on its placid bosom they felt themselves masters of the whole country . The terror of the people , the lack of organization for defence , so characteristic of Celtic or purely Germano-Franco society , the savage bravery and reckless impetuosity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ urged them to enter fearlessly into the very heart of a country which lay prostrate with fear before them . All the cities on the river-banks were plundered as they passed , people of whatever age , sex , or condition , were murdered ; the churches especially were despoiled of their riches , and the numerous and wealthy monasteries then existing were given to the flames , after the monks and all the inmates even to the schoolchildren , had been promiscuously slaughtered , if they had not escaped by flight . But , although all were slaughtered promiscuously , a special ferocity was always displayed by the barbarous conqueror toward the unarmed and defenceless ministers of religion . They took a particular delight in their case in adding insult to cruelty ; and not without reason did the Church at that time consider as martyrs the priests and monks who were slain by the pagan Scandinavians . Their sanguinary and hideous idolatry showed its hatred of truth and holiness in always manifesting a peculiar atrocity when coming in contact with the Church of Christ and her ministers . And @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the Irish against the pagan Danes is , to show how the clan-system became in truth the avenger of God 's altars and the preserver of the sacred edifices and numerous temples with which , as we have seen , the Island of Saints was so profusely studded , from total annihilation . Knowing that , when their march of destruction had taken them a great distance from the mouth of the river , the inhabitants might rise in sheer despair and cut them off on their return , the Scandinavian pirates , to guard against such a contingency , looked for some island or projecting rock , difficult of access , which they fortified , and , placing there the plunder which loaded their boats , they left a portion of their forces to guard it , while the remainder continued their route of depredation . In Ireland they found spots admirably adapted for their purpose in the numerous loughs into which many of the rivers run . This was their invariable system of warfare in the rivers of England ; in Germany along system Rhine ; along the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ France , as well as on the Tagus and Guadalquivir in Spain , where two at least of their large expeditions penetrated . This continued for several centuries , until at last they thought of occupying the country which they had devastated and depopulated , and they began to form permanent settlements in England , Flanders , France , and even Sicily and Naples . When that time had arrived , they showed that , hidden under their ferocious exterior , lay a deep and systematic mind , capable of great thoughts and profound designs . Already in their own rude country they had organized commerce on an extensive scale , and their harbors teemed with richly-laden ships , coming from far distances or preparing to start on long voyages . They had become a great colonizing race , and , after establishing their sway in the Hebrides , the Orkneys , the Faroe Islands , Iceland , and Greenland , they made England their own , first by the Jute and Anglo-Saxon tribes , then by the arms of Denmark , which was at that time so powerful that England @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thought of extending their conquests farther south to the Mediterranean Sea , where their ships rode at anchor in the harbors of fair Sicily . We know , from many chronicles written at the time , with what care they surveyed all the countries they occupied , confiscating the land after having destroyed or reduced its inhabitants to slavery ; dividing it among themselves and establishing their barbarous laws and feudal customs wherever they went . Dudo of St. Quentin , among other writers , describes at length in his rude poem the army of surveyors intrusted by Rollo , the first Duke of Normandy , with the care of drawing up a map of their conquests in France , for the purpose of dividing the whole among his rough followers and vassals . Of this spirit of organization we intend to speak in the next chapter , when we come to consider the Anglo-Norman invasion of Ireland ; but we are not to conclude that the Northmen became straightway civilized , and that the spirit of refinement at once shed its mild manners and gentle habits over their newly-constructed towns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ barbarous as ever , with only a system more perfect and a method more scientific  --  if we may apply such expressions to the case  - -  in their plunderings and murderous expeditions . Of Hastings , their last pagan sea-kong , Dudo , the great admirer of Northmen and the sycophant of the first Norman dukes in France , has left the following terrible character , on reading which in full we scarcely know whether the poem was written in reproach or praise . We translate from the Latin According to Dudo , he was  --  " A wretch accursed and fierce of heart , Unmatched in dark iniquities ; A scowling pest of deadly hate , He throve on savage cruelties . Blood-thirsty , stained with every crime , An artful , cunning , deadly foe , Lawless , vaunting , rash , inconstant , True well-spring of unending woe ! " Hastings never yielded to the new religion , which he always hated and persecuted . But , even after their conversion to Christianity , his countrymen for a long time retained their inborn love of bloodshed and tyranny ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the very reverse of the Irish . Of Rollo , the first Christian Duke of Normandy , Adhemar , a contemporary writer , says : " On becoming Christian , he caused many captives to be beheaded in his presence , in honor of the gods whom he had worshipped . And he also distributed a vast amount of money to the Christian churches in honor of the true God in whose name he had received baptism ; " which would seem to imply that this transaction occurred on the very day of his baptism . We may now compare the success which attended the arms of these terrible invaders throughout the rest of Europe with their complete failure in Ireland . It will be seen that the deep attachment of the Irish Celts for their religion , its altars , shrines , and monuments , was the real cause of their final victory . We shall behold a truly Christian people battling against paganism in its most revolting and audacious form . But , first , how stood the case in England ? " It is not a little @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Review ( vol. xxxii. , p. 203 ) , " that the three successive conquests of England by the Anglo-Saxons , Danes , and Normans , were in fact conquests made by the same people , and , in the last two instances , over those who were not only descended from the same stock , but who had immigrated from the very same localities . The Jutes , Angles , and Saxons , were for the most part Danes or of Danish origin . Their invasion of England commenced by plunder and ended by conquest . These were overthrown by the Danes and Norwegians in precisely the same manner . " In the year 875 , Roll or Rollo , having been expelled from Norway by Harold Harfager , adopted the profession of a sea-kong , and in the short space of sixteen years became Duke of Normandy and son-in-law of the French king , after having previously repudiated his wife . The sixth duke in succession from Rollo was William , illegitimate son of Robert le Diable and Herleva , a concubine . By the battle of Hastings , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who was slain in it , the former became sovereign of England , and instead of the appellation of ' the Bastard , ' by which he had been hitherto known , he now obtained the surname of ' the Conqueror . ' " Thus both the Saxon and Danish invaders were subdued by their Norman brethren . " All the Scandinavian invasions of England were , therefore , successful , each in turn giving way before a new one ; and it is not a little remarkable that the very year in which Brian Boru dealt a death-blow to the Danes at Clontarf witnessed the complete subjection of England by Canute . The success of the Northmen in France is still more worthy of attention . Their invasions began soon after the death of Charlemagne . It is said that , before his demise , hearing of the appearance of one of their fleets not far from the mouth of the Rhine , he shed tears , and foretold the innumerable evils it portended . He saw , no doubt , that the long and oft-repeated efforts of his life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obtain for his successors the peace he had hoped to win by his sword , and , knowing from the Saxons themselves the relentless ferocity , audacity , and frightful cruelty , inoculated in their Scandinavian blood , he could not but expect for his empire the fierce attacks which were preparing in the arctic seas . All his life had he been a conqueror , and under his sway the Franks , whom he had ever led to victory , acquired a name through Europe for military glory which , he dreaded , would no longer remain untarnished . His forebodings , however , could not be shared by any of those who surrounded him in his old age ; his eagle eye alone discerned the coming misfortunes . Seven times had the great emperor subdued the Saxons . He had crushed them effectually , since he could not otherwise prevent them from disturbing his empire . The Franks , who formed his army , were therefore the real conquerors of Western Europe . Starting from the banks of the Rhine , they subjugated the north as far as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Beneventum , by their victories over the Lombards ; by the subjugation of Aquitaine , they took possession of the whole of France ; the only check they had ever received was in the valley of Roncevaux , whence a part of one of their armies was compelled to retreat , without , however , losing Catalonia , which they had won . Nevertheless , we see them a few years after powerless and stricken with terror at the very name of the Northmen , as soon as Hastings and Rollo appeared . Those sea-rovers established themselves straightway in the very centre of the Frankish dominion ; for it was at the mouth of the Rhine , in the island of Walcheren , that they formed their first camp . From Walcheren they swept both banks of the Rhine , and , after enriching themselves with the spoils of monasteries , cathedrals , and palaces , they thought of other countries . Then began the long series of spoliations which desolated the whole of France along the Seine , the Loire , and the Garonne . Opposition they scarcely encountered . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , sustained a long siege , and finally bought them off by tribute . The military power of the nation was annihilated all at once , and of all French history this period is undoubtedly the most humiliating to a native of the soil . And now let us see how the Irish met the same piratical invasions . We are already acquainted with the chief defect of their political system , namely , its want of centralization . The Ard-Righ was in fact but a nominal ruler , except in the small province which acknowledged his chieftainship only . Throughout the rest of Ireland the provincial kings were independent save in name . Not only were they often reluctant to obey the Ard-Righ , but they were not seldom at open war with him . Nor are we to suppose that , at least in the case of a serious attack from without , their patriotism overcame their private differences , and made them combine together to show a common front against a common foe . In a patriarchal state of government there is scarcely any other form of patriotism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ belongs . All the ideas , customs , prejudices , are opposed to united action . Yet an invasion so formidable as that of the Scandinavian tribes showed itself everywhere to be , would have required all the energies and resources of the whole country united under one powerful chief , particularly when it did not consist of one single fearful irruption . During two centuries large fleets of dingy , hide-bound barks discharge on the shores of Erin their successive cargoes of human fiends , bent on rapine and carnage , and altogether proof against fear of even the most horrible death , since such death was to them the entry to the eternal realms of their Walhalla . But , at the period of which we speak , the terrible evil of a want of centralization was greatly aggravated by a change occurring in the line which held the supreme power in the island . The vigorous rule of a long succession of princes belonging to the northern Hy-Niall line gave way to the ascendency of the southern branch of this great family ; and the much more limited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power very inferior to that of the northern branch , and consequently lessened the influence possessed by the ruling family in past times . In Ireland the connections , more or less numerous , by blood relationship with the great families , always exercised a powerful influence over the body of the nation in rendering it docile and amenable to the will of the Ard-Righ . Mullingar , in West Meath , was the abode of the southern Hy-Nialls , and Malachy of the Shannon , the first Ard-Righ of this line , succeeded King Niall of Callan in 843 . The Danes were already in the country and had committed depredations . Their first descent is mentioned by the Four Masters as taking place at Rathlin on the coast of Antrim in the year 790 . But the country was soon aroused ; and religious feelings , always uppermost in the Irish heart , supplied the deficiencies of the constitution of the state and the particularly unfavorable circumstances of the period . The Danes , as usual , first attacked the monasteries and churches , and this alone was enough @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of resistance and retaliation . Iona was laid waste in 797 , and again in 801 and 805 . " To save from the rapacity of the Danes , " says Montalembert in his Monks of the West , " a treasure which no pious liberality could replace , the body of S. Columba was carried to Ireland . And it is the unvarying tradition of Irish annals , that it was deposited finally at Down , in an episcopal monastery , not far from the eastern shore of the island , between the great monastery of Bangor in the North , and Dublin the future capital of Ireland , in the South . " Ireland was first assailed by the Danes on the north immediately after they had gained possession of the Hebrides ; but the coasts of Germany , Belgium , and France had witnessed their attacks long before . Religion was the first to suffer ; and as the Island of Saints was at the time of their descent covered with churches and monasteries , the Scandinavian barbarians found in these a rich harvest which induced them to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only a few boats and a small body of men . Nevertheless , as their irruptions were unexpected , and the people were unprepared for resistance , many holy edifices suffered from these attacks , and a great number of priests and monks were murdered . We read that Armagh with its cathedral and monasteries was plundered four times in one month , and in Bangor nine hundred monks were slaughtered in a single day . The majority of the inmates of those houses fled with their books and the relics of their saints at the approach of the invaders , but , returning to their desecrated homes after the departure of the pirates , gave cause for those successive plunderings . But the Irish did not always fly in dismay , as was the case in England and France . A force was generally mustered in the neighborhood to meet and repel the attack , and in numerous instances the marauders were driven back with slaughter to their ships . For the clans rallied to the defence of the Church . Though the chieftains and their clansmen might seem to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ though in their insane feuds they often turned a deaf ear to the remonstrances and reproaches of the bishops and monks , nevertheless Christianity reigned supreme in their inmost hearts . And when they beheld pagans landed on their shores , to insult their faith and destroy the monuments of their religion , to shed the blood of holy men , of consecrated virgins , and of innocent children , they turned that bravery which they had so often used against themselves and for the satisfaction of worthless contentions into a new and a more fitting channel  --  the defence of their altars and the punishment of sacrilegious outrage . The clan system was the very best adapted for this kind of warfare , so long as no large fleets came , and the pirates were too few in number and too sagacious in mind to think of venturing far inland . When but a small number of boats arrived , the invaders found in the neighborhood a clan ready to receive them . The clansmen speedily assembled , and , falling on the plundering crews , showed them how different @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were inspired by a genuine love for their faith , from the degenerate sons of the Gallo-Romans . So the annals of the country tell us that the " foreigners " were destroyed in 812 by the men of Umhall in Mayo ; by Corrach , lord of Killarney , in the same year ; by the men of Ulidia and by Carbry with the men of Hy-Kinsella in 827 ; by the clansmen of Hy-Figeinte , near Limerick , in 834 , and many more . But the hydra had a thousand heads , and new expeditions were continually arriving . In the words of Mr. Worsaae , a Danish writer of this century : " From time immemorial Ireland was celebrated in the Scandinavian north , for its charming situation , its mild climate , and its fertility and beauty . The Kongspell  --  mirror of Kings  --  which was compiled in Norway about the year 1200 , says that Ireland is almost the best of the lands we are acquainted with although no vines grow there . The Scandinavian Vikings and emigrants , who often contented themselves with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ north Atlantic , must , therefore , have especially turned their attention to the ' Emerald Isle , ' particularly as it bordered closely upon their colonies in England and Scotland . But to make conquests in Ireland , and to acquire by the sword alone permanent settlements there , was no easy task .... When we consider that neither the Romans nor the Anglo-Saxons ever obtained a footing in that country , although they had conquered England , the adjacent isle , and when we further reflect upon the immense power exerted by the English in later times in order to subdue the Celtic population of the island , we can not help being surprised at the very considerable Scandinavian settlements which , as early as the ninth century , were formed in that country . " These are the words of a Dane . We shall see what the " very considerable Scandinavian settlements " amounted to ; the quotation is worthy of note , as presenting in a few words the motives of those who at any time invaded Ireland , and the stubborn resistance which they met @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of those northern hordes . They met them one after another without considering their complexity and connection . They only saw a troop of fierce barbarians landed on their shores , chiefly intent upon plundering and burning the churches and holy houses which they had erected ; they saw their island , hitherto protected by the ocean from foreign attack , and resting in the enjoyment of a constant round of Christian festivals and joyful feasts , now desecrated by the presence and the fury of ferocious pagans ; they armed for the defence of all that is dear to man ; and though , perhaps , at first beaten and driven back , they mustered in force at a distance to fall on the victors with a swoop of noble birds who fly to the defence of their young . This kind of contest continued for two hundred years , with the exception of the periods of larger invasions , when a single clan no longer sufficed to avenge the cause of God and humanity , and the Ard-Righ was compelled to throw himself on the scene at the head @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to oppose the vast fleets and large armies of the Danes . The country suffered undoubtedly ; the cattle were slain ; the fields devastated ; the churches and houses burned ; the poets silenced or woke their song only to notes of woe ; the harpers taught the national instrument the music of sadness ; the numerous schools were scattered , though never destroyed ; as centuries later , under the Saxon , the people took their books or writing materials to their miserable cottages or hid them in the mountain fastnesses , and thus , for the first time in their history , the hedge school succeeded those of the large monasteries . So the nation continued to live on , the energetic fire which burned in the hearts of the people could not be quenched . They rose and rose again , and often took a noble revenge , never disheartened by the most utter disaster . On three different occasions this bloody strife assumed a yet more serious and dangerous aspect . It was not a few boats only which came to the shores of the devoted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ combine in order to crush all opposition at a single blow . When the knowledge of the richness , fertility , and beauty of the island had fully spread throughout Denmark and Norway , a large fleet gathered in the harbors of the Baltic and put to sea . The famous Turgesius or Turgeis  --  Thorgyl in the Norse  --  was the leader . The Edda and Sagas of Norway and Denmark have been examined with a view to elucidate this passage in Irish history , but thus far fruitlessly . It is known , however , that many Sagas have been lost which might have contained an account of it . The Irish annals are too unanimous on the subject to leave any possibility of doubt with regard to it ; and , whatever may be the opinion of learned men on the early events in the history of Erin , the story of the eighth , ninth , and tenth centuries rests entirely on historical ground , as surely as if the facts had happened a few hundred years ago . Turgesius landed with his fleet on the northeast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Scandinavians already in the country acknowledged his leadership and flocked to his standard . McGeoghegan says that " he assumed in his own hands the sovereignty of all the foreigners that were then in Ireland . " From the north he marched southward ; and , passing Armagh on his route , attacked and took it , and plundered its shrines , monasteries , and schools . There were then within its walls seven thousand students , according to an ancient roll which Keating says has been discovered at Oxford . These were slaughtered or dispersed , and the same fate attended the nine hundred monks residing in its monasteries . Foraanan , the primate , fled ; and the pagan sea-kong , entering the cathedral , seated himself on the primatial throne , and had himself proclaimed archbishop .  --  ( O'Curry . ) He had shortly before devastated Clonmacnoise and made his wife supreme head of that great ecclesiastical centre , celebrated for its many convents of holy women . The tendency to add insult to outrage , when the object of the outrage is the religion of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ barbarians ; and Turgesius was merely setting the example , in his own rude and honest fashion , to the more polished but no less ridiculous assumption of ecclesiastical authority , which was to be witnessed in England , on the part of Henry VIII . and Elizabeth . The power of the invader was so superior to whatever forces the neighboring Irish clans could muster , that no opposition was even attempted at first by the indignant witnesses of those sacrileges . It is even said that at the very time when the Northmen were pillaging and burning in the northeast of the island , the men of Munster were similarly employed in Bregia ; and Conor , the reigning monarch of Ireland , instead of defending the invaded territories , was himself hard at work plundering Leinster to the banks of the river Liffey  --  ( Haverty . ) But , doubtless , none of those deluded Irish princes had yet heard of the pagan devastations and insults to their religion , and thus it was easy for the great sea-kong to strengthen and extend his power . For @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which would have effectually crushed Ireland forever , if the springs of vitality in the nation had not been more than usually expansive and strong . The political ability of the Danes began to show itself in Ireland , as it did about the same period ( 830 ) in England , and later on in France . Turgesius saw that , in order to subdue the nation , it was necessary to establish military stations in the interior and fortify cities on the coast , where he could receive reinforcements from Scandinavia . These plans he was prompt to put into practice . His military stations would have been too easily destroyed by the bravery of the Irish , strengthened by the elasticity of their clan-system , if they were , planted on land . He , therefore , set them in the interior lakes which are so numerous in the island , where his navy could repel all the attacks of the natives , unused as they were to naval conflicts . He stationed a part of his fleet on Lough Lee in the upper Shannon , another in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lough Lughmagh or Dundalk bay . These various military positions were strongholds which secured the supremacy of the Scandinavians in the north of the island for a long time . In the south , Turgesius relied on the various cities which his troops were successively to build or enlarge , namely , Dublin , Limerick , Galway , Cork , Waterford , and Wexford . This first Scandinavian ruler could begin that policy only by establishing his countrymen in Dublin , which they seized in 836 . Up to that time the Irish had scarcely any city worthy of the name . A patriarchal people , they followed the mode of life of the old Eastern patriarchs , who abhorred dwelling in large towns . Until the invasion of the Danes , the island was covered with farm-houses placed at some distance from each other . Here and there large duns or raths , as they were called , formed the dwellings of their chieftains , and became places of refuge for the clansmen in time of danger . Churches and monasteries arose in great numbers from the time of St. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but soon grew into centres of population , corresponding in many respects to the idea of towns as generally understood . The Northmen brought with them into Ireland the ideas of cities , commerce , and municipal life , hitherto unknown . The introduction of these supposed a total change necessary in the customs of the natives , and stringent regulations to which the people could not but be radically opposed . And strange was their manner of introduction by these northern hordes . Keating tells us how Turgesius understood them . They were far worse than the imaginary laws of the Athenians as recorded in the " Birds " of Aristophanes . No more stringent rules could be devised , whether for municipal , rural , or social regulations ; and , as the Northmen are known to have been of a systematic mind , no stronger proof of this fact could be given . Keating deplores in the following terms the fierce tyranny of the Danish sea-kong : " The result of the heavy oppression of this thraldom of the Gaels under the foreigner was , that great weariness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few of the clergy that survived had fled for safety to the forests and wildernesses , where they lived in misery , but passed their time piously and devoutly , and now the same clergy prayed fervently to God to deliver them from that tyranny of Turgesius , and , moreover , they fasted against that tyrant , and they commanded every layman among the faithful , that still remained obedient to their voice , to fast against him likewise . And God then heard their supplications in as far as the delivering of Turgesius into the hands of the Gaels . " Thus in the ninth century the subsequent events of the sixteenth and seventeenth were foreshadowed . The judicious editor of Keating , however , justly remarks , that this description , taken mainly from Cambrensis , is not supported in its entirety by the contemporaneous annals of the island ; that the power of the Danes never was as universal and oppressive as is here supposed ; and that though each of the facts mentioned may have actually taken place in some part of the country , at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as representing the actual state of the entire island at the time , is exaggerated and of too sweeping a nature . It is clear , nevertheless , that the domination of the Northmen could not have been completely established in Ireland , together with their notions of superiority of race , trade on a large scale , and a consequent agglomeration of men in large cities , without the total destruction of the existing social state of the Irish , and consequently something of the frightful tyranny just described . But the people were too brave , too buoyant , and too ardent in their nature , to bear so readily a yoke so heavy . They were too much attached to their religion , not to sacrifice their lives , if necessary , in order to put an end to the sacrilegious usurpations of a pagan king , profaning , by his audacious assumptions , the noblest , highest , purest , and most sacred dignities of holy Church . A man , stained with the blood of so many prelates and priests , seated on the primatial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ profound feelings ; his pagan wife ruling over the city which the virgins of Bridget , the spouses of Christ , had honored and sanctified so long ; their religion insulted by those who tried to destroy it  --  how could such a state of things be endured by the whole race , not yet reduced to the condition to which so many centuries of oppression subsequently brought it down ! Hence Keating could write directly after the passage just quoted : " When the nobles of Ireland saw that Turgesius had brought confusion upon their country , and that he was assuming supreme authority over themselves , and reducing them to thraldom and vassalage , they became inspired with a fortitude of mind , and a loftiness of spirit , and a hardihood and firmness of purpose , that urged them to work in right earnest , and to toil zealously in battle against him and his murdering hordes . " And hereupon the faithful historian gives a long list of engagements in which the Irish were successful , ending with the victory of Malachi at Glas Linni , where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taken prisoner and afterward drowned in Lough Uair or Owell in West Meath , by order of the Irish king . This prince , then monarch of the whole island , atoned for the apathy and the want of patriotism of his predecessors , Conor and the Nialls . He was in truth a saviour of his country , and the death of the oppressor was the signal for a general onslaught upon the " foreigners " in every part of the island . " The people rose simultaneously , and either massacred them in their towns , or defeated them in the fields , so that , with the exception of a few strongholds , like Dublin , the whole of Ireland was free from the Northmen . Wherever they could escape , they took refuge in their ships , but only to return in more numerous swarms than before . " - ( M. Haverty . ) It is evident that their deep sense of religion was the chief source of the energy which the Irish then displayed . They had not yet been driven into a fierce resistance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Danes , when they carried their vexatious tyranny into all the details of private life - not allowing lords and ladies of the Irish race to wear rich dresses and appear in a manner befitting their rank - when they went so far as to refuse a bowl of milk to an infant , that a rude soldier might quench his thirst with it - could have scarcely permitted the apparently conquered people to enjoy all the advantages accruing to the owner from the possession of land . Yet in none of the chronicles of the time which we have seen is any mention made of open confiscation , and of the survey and division of the territory among the greedy followers of the sea-kong . We do not yet witness what happened shortly after in Normandy under Rollo , and what was to happen four hundred years later in Ireland . The Scandinavians had not yet attained that degree of civilization which makes men attach a paramount importance to the possession of a fixed part of any territory , and call in surveys , title-deeds , charters , and all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Irish , consequently , did not perceive that their broad acres were passing into the control of a foreign race , and were being taken piecemeal from them , thus bringing them gradually down to the condition of mere serfs and dependants . What they did see , beyond the possibility of mistake or deception , was their religion outraged , their spiritual rulers , not merely no longer at liberty to practise the duties of their sacred ministry , but hunted down and slaughtered or driven to the mountains and the woods . They saw that pagans were actually ruling their holy isle , and changing a paradise of sanctity into a pandemonium of brutal passion , presided over by a superstitious and cruel idolatry . For surely , although the Irish chronicles fail to speak of it , the minstrels and historians being too full of their own misery to think of looking at the pagan rites of their enemies - those enemies worshipped Thor and Odin and Frigga , and as surely did they detest the Church which they were on a fair way to destroy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ courage of despair . For this cause chiefly did the whole island fly to arms , fall on their foes and bring down on their heads a fearful retribution . This it was , doubtless , which breathed into the new monarch the energy which he displayed on the field of Glas Linni ; and when he ordered the barbarian , now a prisoner in his hands , to be drowned , it was principally as a sign that he detested in him the blasphemer and the persecutor of God 's church . Thus did the first national misfortunes of this Celtic people become the means of enkindling in their hearts a greater love for their religion , and a greater zeal for its preservation in their midst . Ireland was again free ; and , although we have no details concerning the short period of prosperity which followed the overthrow of the tyranny we have touched upon , we have small doubt that the first object of the care of those who , under God , had worked their own deliverance , was to repair the ruins of the desecrated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been stripped . The Danes themselves came to see that they had acted rashly in striving to deprive the Irish of a religion which was so dear to their hearts ; they resolved on a change of policy , as they were still bent on taking possession of the island , which Mr. Worsaae has told us they considered the best country in existence . They resolved , therefore , to act with more prudence , and to make use of trade and the material blessings which it confers , in order to entice the Irish to their destruction , by allowing the Northmen to carry on business transactions with them and so gradually to dwell among them again . Father Keating tells the story in his quaint and graphic style : " The plan adopted by them on this occasion was to equip three captains , sprung from the noblest blood of Norway , and to send them with a fleet to Ireland , for the object of obtaining some station for purpose of trade . And with them they accordingly embarked many tempting wares , and many valuable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men of Ireland , in the hope of thus securing their friendship ; for they believed that they might thus succeed in surreptitiously fixing a grasp upon the Irish soil , and might be enabled to oppress the Irish people again . . . . The three captains , therefore , coming from the ports of Norway , landed in Ireland with their followers , as if for the purpose of demanding peace , and under the pretext of establishing a trade ; and there , with the consent of the Irish , who were given to peace , they took possession of some sea-board places , and built three cities thereon , to wit : Waterford , Dublin , and Limerick . " We see , then , the Scandinavians abandoning their first project of conquering the North to fall on the South and confining themselves to a small number of fortified sea-ports . The first result of this policy was a firmer hold than ever on Dublin , once already occupied by them in 836 . " Amlaf , or Olaf , or Olaus , came from Norway to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the island submitted to him , and they extracted rent from the Gaels . " - ( Four Masters . ) From that time to the twelfth century Dublin became the chief stronghold of the Scandinavians , and no fewer than thirty-five Ostmen , or Danish kings , governed it . They made it an important emporium , and such it continued even after the Scandinavian invasion had ceased . McFirbis says that in his time - 1650 - most of the merchants of Dublin were the descendants of the Norwegian Irish king , Olaf Kwaran ; and , to give a stronger impulse to commerce , they were the first to coin money in the country . The new Scandinavian policy carried out by Amlaf , who tried to establish in Dublin the seat of a kingdom which was to extend over the whole island , resulted therefore only in the establishment of five or six petty principalities , wherein the Northmen , for some time masters , were gradually reduced to a secondary position , and finally confined themselves to the operations of commerce . Since the attempt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they never showed the slightest inclination to repeat it ; hence they were left in quiet possession of the places which they occupied on the sea-board , and gradually came to embrace Christianity themselves . Little is known of the circumstances which attended this change of religion on their part ; and it is certain that it did not take place till late in the tenth century . Some pretend that Christianity was brought to them from their own country , where it had already been planted by several missionaries and bishops . But it is known that St. Ancharius , the first apostle of Denmark , could not establish himself permanently in that country , and had to direct a few missionaries from Hamburgh , where he fixed his see . It is known , moreover , that Denmark was only truly converted by Canute in the eleventh century , after his conquest of England . As to Norway , the first attempt at its conversion by King Haquin , who had become a Christian at the court of Athelstan in England , was a failure ; and although his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time , paganism was again reestablished , and flourished as late as 995 . It was , in fact , Olaf the Holy who , coming from England , in 1017 , with the priests Sigefried , Budolf , and Bernard , succeeded in introducing Christianity permanently into Norway , and he made more use of the sword than of the word in his mission . With regard to the conversion of the Danes in Ireland , it seems that , after all , it was the ever-present spectacle of the workings of Christianity among the Irish which gradually opened their eyes and ears . They came to love the country and the people when they knew them thoroughly ; they respected them for their bravery , which they had proved a thousand times ; they felt attracted toward them on account of their geniality of temperament and their warm social feelings ; even their defects of character and their impulsive nature were pleasing to them . They soon sought their company and relationship ; they began to intermarry with them ; and from this there was but a step to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and Limerick were , however , the last to abandon paganism , and they seem not to have done so until after Clontarf . It is very remarkable that , during all those conflicts of the Irish with the Danes , when the Northmen strewed the island with dead and ruins ; when they seemed to be planting their domination in the Orkneys , the Hebrides , and even the Isle of Man , on a firm footing ; when the seas around England and Ireland swarmed with pirates , and new expeditions started almost every spring from the numerous harbors of the Baltic  --  the Irish colony of Dal Riada in Scotland , which was literally surrounded by the invaders , succeeded in wresting North Britain from the Picts , drove them into the Lowlands , and so completely rooted them out , that history never more speaks of them , so that to this day the historical problem stands unsolved  --  What became of the Picts ?  - -  various as are the explanations given of their disappearance . And , what is more remarkable still , is , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Erin , and the first of the dynasty of Scottish kings , in the person of Kenneth McAlpine , was actually set on the throne of Scotland by the arms of the Irish warriors , who , not satisfied apparently with their constant conflicts with the Danes on their own soil , passed over the Eastern Sea to the neighboring coast of Great Britain . During the last forty years of the tenth century the Danes lived in Ireland as though they belonged to the soil . If they waged war against some provincial king , they became the allies of others . When clan fought clan , Danes were often found on both sides , or if on one only , they soon joined the other . They had been brought to embrace the manners of the natives , and to adopt many of their customs and habits . Yet there always remained a lurking distrust , more or less marked , between the two races ; and it was clear that Ireland could never be said to have escaped the danger of subjugation until the Scandinavian element should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very early even in Church affairs , the Christian natives being looked upon with a jealous eye by the Christian Danes ; so that , toward the middle of the tenth century , the Danes of Dublin having succeeded in obtaining a bishop of their own nation , they sent him to England to be consecrated by Lanfranc , the Archbishop of Canterbury , and for a long time the see of Dublin was placed under the jurisdiction of Lanfranc 's successors . This grew into a serious difficulty for Ireland , as the capital of Leinster began to be looked upon as depending , at least spiritually , on England ; and later on , at the time of the invasion under Strongbow , the establishment of the English Pale was considerably facilitated by such an arrangement , to which Rome had consented only for the spiritual advantage of her Scandinavian children in Ireland . And the Irish were right in distrusting every thing foreign on the soil , for , even after becoming Christians , the Danes could not resist the temptation of making a last effort for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effort , which resulted in their final overthrow at Clontarf . It does not enter into our purpose to give the story of that great event , known in all its details to the student of Irish history . It is not for us to trace the various steps by which Brian Boru mounted to supreme power , and superseded Malachi , to relate the many partial victories he had already gained over the Northmen , nor to allude to his splendid administration of the government , and the happiness of the Irish under his sway . But it is our duty to point out the persevering attempts of the Scandinavian race , not only to keep its footing on Irish soil , but to try anew to conquer what it had so often failed to conquer . For , in describing their preparations for this last attempt on a great scale , we but add another proof of that Irish steadfastness which we have already had so many occasions to admire . In the chronicle of Adhemar , quoted by Lanigan from Labbe ( Nova Bibl. , MSS. , Tom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " the Northmen came at that time to Ireland , with an immense fleet , conveying even their wives and children , with a view of extirpating the Irish and occupying in their stead that very wealthy country in which there were twelve cities , with extensive bishopries and a king . " Labbe thinks the Chronicle was written before the year 1031 , so that in his opinion the writer was a contemporary of the facts he relates . The Irish Annals state , on their side , that " the foreigners were gathered from all the west of Europe , envoys having been despatched into Norway , the Orkneys , the Baltic islands , so that a great number of Vikings came from all parts of Scandinavia , with their families , for the purpose of a permanent settlement . " Similar efforts were made about the same time by the Danes for the lasting conquest of England , which succeeded , Sweyn having been proclaimed king in 1013 , and Canute the Great becoming its undisputed ruler in 1017 . It is well known how the attempt failed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ completely defeated near Dublin by Brian and his sons . From that time the existence of the Scandinavian race on the Irish soil was a precarious one ; they were merely permitted to occupy the sea-ports for the purpose of trade , and soon Irish chieftains replaced their kings in Dublin , Limerick , Waterford , and Cork . The reader may be curious to learn , in conclusion , what signs the Danes left of their long sojourn on the island . If we listen to mere popular rumor , the country is still full of the ruins of buildings occupied by them . The common people , in pointing out to strangers the remains of edifices , fortifications , raths , duns , even round-towers and churches , either more ancient or more recent than the period of the Norse invasion , ascribe them to the Danes . It is clear that two hundred years of devastations , burnings , and horrors , have left a deep impression on the mind of the Irish ; and , as they can not suppose that such powerful enemies could have remained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their passage , they often attribute to them the construction of the very edifices which they destroyed . The general accuracy of their traditions seems here at fault . For there is no nation on earth so exact as the Irish in keeping the true remembrance of facts of their past history . Not long ago all Irish peasants were perfectly acquainted with the whole history of their neighborhood ; they could tell what clans had succeeded each other , the exact spots where such a party had been overthrown and such another victorious ; every village had its sure traditions printed on the minds of its inhabitants , and , by consulting the annals of the nation , the coincidence was often remarkable . How is it , therefore , that they were so universally at fault with respect to the Danes ? A partial explanation has been given which is in itself a proof of the tenacity of Irish memory . It is known that the Tuatha de Danaan were not only skilful in medicine , in the working of metals and in magic , but many buildings are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ others , the great mound of New Grange , on the banks of the Boyne , which is still in perfect preservation , although opened and pillaged by the Danes  - -  a work reminding the beholder of some Egyptian monument . The coincidence of the name of the Tuatha de Danaan with that of the Danes may have induced many of the illiterate Irish to adopt the universal error into which they fell long ago , of attributing most of the ancient monuments of their country to the Danes . The fact is , that the ruins of a few unimportant castles and churches are all the landmarks that remain of the Danish domination in Ireland ; and even these must have been the product of the latter part of it . But a more curious proof of the extirpation of every thing Danish in the island is afforded by Mr. Worsaae , whose object in writing his account of the Danes and Norwegians in England , Scotland , and Ireland , was to glorify his own country , Denmark . He made a special study of the names of places and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the three great divisions of the British Isles ; and certainly the language of a conquering people always shows itself in many words of the conquered country , where the subjugation has been of sufficient duration . In England , chiefly in the northern half of the kingdom , a very great number of Danish names appear and are still preserved in the geography of the country . In Mr. Worsaae 's book there is a tabular view of 1,373 Danish and Norwegian names of places in England , and also a list of 100 Danish words , selected from the vulgar tongue , still in use among the people who dwell north of Watling Street . In Scotland , likewise  --  in the Highlands and even in the Lowlands -- a considerable number of names , or at least of terminations , are still to be met in the geography of the country . Three or four names of places around Dublin , and the terminations of the names of the cities of Waterford , Wexford , Longford , and a few others , are all that Mr. Worsaae could find @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , not to speak of their government and laws , remained proof against the long and persevering efforts made by a great and warlike Northern race to invade the country , and substitute its social life for that of the natives . As a whole , the Scandinavian irruptions were a complete failure . They did not succeed in impressing their own nationality or individuality on any thing in the island , as they did in England , Holland , and the north of France . The few drops of blood which they left in the country have been long ago absorbed in the healthful current of the pure Celtic stream ; even the language of the people was not affected by them . As for the social character of the nation , it was not touched by this fearful aggression . The customs of Scandinavia with respect to government , society , domestic affairs , could not influence the Irish ; they refused to admit the systematic thraldom which the sternness of the Northmen would engraft upon their character , and preserved their free manners in spite of all adverse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sitrick , and their compeers , failed as signally as other Scandinavian chieftains succeeded in Britain and Normandy . The municipal system , which has won so much praise , was scornfully abandoned by the Irish to the Danes of the sea port towns , and they continued the agricultural life adapted to their tastes . Towns and cities were not built in the interior till much later by the English . The clan territories continued to be governed as before . The " Book of Rights " extended its enactments even to the Danish Pale ; and the Danes tried to convert it to their own advantage by introducing into it false chapters . How the poem of the Gaels of Ath Cliath first found a place in the " Book of Rights " is still unknown to the best Irish antiquarians . John O'Donovan concludes from a verse in it that it was composed in the tenth century , after the conversion of the Danes of Dublin to Christianity . It proves certainly that the Scandinavians in Ireland , like the English of the Pale later on , had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in fact , become . Irishmen , to all intents and purposes . Not succeeding in making Northmen of the Irish , they succumbed to the gentle influence of Irish manners and religion . As for the commercial spirit , the Irish could not be caught by it , even when confronted by the spectacle of the wealth it conferred on the " foreigners . " It is stated openly in the annals of the race that their greatest kings , both Malachi and Brian Boru , did not utterly expel the Danes from the country , in order that they might profit by the Scandinavian traders , and receive through them the wines , silks , and other commodities , which the latter imported from the continent of Europe . The same is true of the sea-faring life . The Irish could never be induced to adopt it as a profession , whatever may have been their fondness for short voyages in their curraghs . The only baneful effects which the Norse invasion exercised on the Irish were : 1 . The interruption of studies on the large , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been conducted ; 2 . The breaking up of the former constitution of the monarchy , by compelling the several clans which were attacked by the " foreigners " to act independently of the Ard-Righ , so that from that time irresponsible power was divided among a much greater number of chieftains . But these unfortunate effects of the Norse irruptions affected in no wise the Irish character , language , or institutions , which , in fact , finally triumphed over the character , language , and institutions of the pirates established among them for upward of two centuries . CHAPTER VI . THE IRISH FREE CLANS AND ANGLO-NORMAN FEUDALISM . The Danes were subdued , and the Irish at liberty to go on weaving the threads of their history  --  though , in consequence of the local wars , they had lost the concentrating power of the Ard-Righ  --  when treachery in their own ranks opened up the way for a far more serious attack from another branch of the great Scandinavian family  --  the Anglo-Norman . The manners of the people had been left unchanged ; the clan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had stood the test of previous revolutions ; now it was to be confronted by a new system which had just conquered Europe , and spread itself round about the apparently doomed island . Of all places it had taken deep root in England , where it was destined to survive its destruction elsewhere in the convulsions of our modern history . That system , then in full vigor , was feudalism . In order rightly to understand and form a correct judgment on the question , and its mighty issues , we must state briefly what the chief characteristics of feudalism were in those countries where it flourished . The feudal system proceeded on the principle that landed property was all derived from the king , as the captain of a conquering army ; that it had been distributed by him among his followers on certain conditions , and that it was liable to be forfeited if those conditions were not fulfilled . The feudal system , moreover , politically considered , supposed the principle that all civil and political rights were derived from the possession of land ; that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political rights  --  were , in fact , not men , but villeins . Consequently , it reduced nations to a small number of landowners , enjoying all the privileges of citizenship ; the masses , deprived of all rights , having no share in the government , no opportunity of rising in the social scale , were forever condemned to villeinage or serfdom . Feudalism , in our opinion , came first from Scandinavia . The majority of writers derive it from Germany . The question of its origin is too extensive to be included within our present limits , and indeed is unnecessary , as we deal principally with the fact and not with its history . When the sea-rover had conquered the boat of an enemy , or destroyed a village , he distributed the spoils among his crew . Every thing was handed over to his followers in the form of a gift , and in return these latter were bound to serve him with the greatest ardor and devotedness . In course of time the idea of settling down on some territory which they had devastated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rovers . The sea-kong did by the land what he had been accustomed to do by the plunder : he parcelled it out among his faithful followers  - -  fideles  --  giving to each his share of the territory . This was called feoh by the Anglo-Saxons , who were the first to carry out the system on British soil , as Dr. Lingard shows . Thus the word fief was coined , which in due time took its place in all the languages of Europe . The giver was considered the absolute owner of whatever he gave , as is the commander of a vessel at sea . It was a beneficium conferred by him , to which certain indispensable conditions were attached . Military duty was the first , but not the only one of these . Writers on feudalism mention a great number , the nonfulfilment of which incurred what was called forfeiture . In countries where the pirates succeeded in establishing themselves , all the native population was either destroyed by them , as Dudo tells us was the case in Normandy , or , as more frequently happened @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the inhabitants who survived were reduced to serfdom , and compelled to till the soil for the conquerors ; they were thenceforth called villeins or ascripti glebae . It is clear that such only as possessed land could claim civil and political rights in the new states thus called into existence . Hence the owning of land under feudal tenure was the great and only essential characteristic of mediaeval feudalism . This system , which was first introduced into Britain by the Anglo-Saxons , was brought to a fixed and permanent state by the Normans  --  followers of William the Conqueror ; and , when the time came for treachery to summon the Norman knights to Irish soil , the devoted island found herself face to face with an iron system which at that period crushed and weighed down all Europe . The Normans had now been settled in England for a hundred years ; all the castles in the country were occupied by Norman lords ; all bishopries filled by Norman bishops ; all monasteries ruled by Norman abbots . At the head of the state stood the king @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than in any other country in Europe , was the king the key-stone to the feudal masonry . Not an inch of ground in England was owned save under his authority , as enjoying the supremum dominium . All the land had been granted by his predecessors as fiefs , with the right of reversion to the crown by forfeiture in case of the violation of feudal obligations . Here was no allodial property , no censitive hereditary domain , as in the rest of , otherwise , feudal Europe . All English lawyers were unanimous in the doctrine that the king alone was the true master of the territory ; that tenure under him carried with it all the conditions of feudal tenure , and that any deed or grant proceeding from his authority ought to be so understood . The south-western portion of Wales was occupied by Norman lords , Flemings for the most part . Two of these , Robert Fitzstephens and Maurice Fitzgerald , sailed to the aid of the Irish King of Leinster . They were the first to land , arriving a full year before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on beforehand between himself and the Leinster king were fulfilled . He was married to the daughter of Dermod McMurrough , chief of Leinster , acknowledged Righ Dahma , that is , successor to the crown , while the Irish , accustomed for ages to admire valor and bow submissively to the law of conquest , admitted the claim . The English adventurer they looked upon as one of themselves by marriage . Election in such a case was unnecessary , or rather , understood , and Strongbow took the place which was his in their eyes by right of his wife , of head under McMurrough of all the clans of Leinster . When , a little later , came Henry II . to be acknowledged by Strongbow as his suzerain , and to receive the homage of the presumptive heir of Leinster , submission to him was , in the eyes of the Irish , merely a consequence of their own clan system . They understood the homage rendered to him in a very different sense from that attached to it by feudal nations ; and had they had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , not one of them would have consented to live under and bow the neck to such a yoke . In fact , on the small territory where those great events were enacted , two worlds , utterly different from each other , stood face to face . Cambrensis tells us that the English were struck with wonder at what they saw . The imperialism of Rome had never touched Ireland . The Danes , opposed so strenuously from the outset , and finally overcome , had never been able to introduce there their restrictive measures of oppression . The English found the natives in exactly the same state as that in which Julius Caesar found the Gauls twelve hundred years before , except as to religion  --  the race governed patriarchally by chieftains allied to their subordinates by blood relationship ; no unity in the government , no common flag , no private and hereditary property , nothing to bind the tribes together except religion . It was not a nation properly , but rather an agglomeration of small nations often at war each with each , yet all strongly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nevertherless , the dear idea of country  --  the chieftains elective , bold , enterprising ; the subordinates free , attached to the chief as to a common father , throwing themselves with ardor into all his quarrels , ready to die for him at any moment . Around chief and clansmen circled a large number of brehons , shanachies , poets , bards , and harpers  --  poetry , music , and war strangely blended together . The religion of Christ spread over all a halo of purity and holiness ; large monasteries filled with pious monks , and convents of devout and pure virgins abounded ; bishops and priests in the churches chanting psalms , each accompanying himself with a many-stringed harp , gave forth sweet harmony , unheard at the time in any other part of the world . A most important feature to be considered is their understanding of property . Hereditary right of land with respect to individuals , and the transmission of property of any kind by right of primogeniture , were unknown among them . If a specified amount of territory was assigned to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the shanachy , head poet , and other civil officers each in his degree , such property was attached to the office and not to the man who filled it , but passed to his elected successor and not to his own children ; while the great bulk of the territory belonged to the clan in common . No one possessed the right to alienate a single rood of it , and , if at times a portion was granted to exiles , to strangers , to a contiguous clan , the whole tribe was consulted on the subject . Over the common land large herds of cattle roamed  --  the property of individuals who could own nothing , except of a movable nature , beyond their small wooden houses . This state of things had existed , according to their annals , for several thousand years . Their ancestors had lived happily under such social conditions , which they wished to abide in and hand down to their posterity . Foreign trade was distasteful to them ; in fact , they had no inclination for commerce . Lucre they despised @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been lately introduced among them . Yet , being refined in their //                     